Nithin Reddy
Email: nithin7445@gmail.com
Phone: 214-509-7784
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:
8+years of Experience in the Java/ J2EE development in all phases of Software development life cycle
Including Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, and   Documentation.
Very strong knowledge in Object Oriented Analysis and Designing, Object oriented programming and
Design Patterns.
Experience in development of applications using java Java/J2EE web applications using Java, Servlets,
JSTL, Struts, spring, EJB, AJAX, ORM, JNDI, Web Services, JDBC, JAXP, RMI, Swing, XML and
JavaScript.
Excellent knowledge and experience of developing applications with Model View Architecture (MVC)
Using Struts   Framework, Spring Framework.
Experienced in creative and effective front-end development using JSP, JSP Tag Libraries, Servlets,
JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, ANT, Maven, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax and CSS, D3.js.
Experience in Front End Technologies: JSP, HTML5, Rich faces, Bootstrap, JQuery and Angular.js
Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts (table less layout)
Experience in CSS pixel-level layout, Consistency with browsers, Version and Platform Independence.
Experience in configuring build tools like Maven and ANT for the development and deployment.
Experience in Requirement gathering & analysis, designing UML - for developing application specific
Object model, Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams & State diagrams.
Have extensive experience in building and deploying applications on Web/Application Servers like
Web Logic, Web Sphere, Glassfish and Tomcat.
Experienced in configuring of build files with ANT, Maven and logging using log4J.
Experience in XML technologies like XSL/XSLT, SAX, DOM, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, Schema, SOA, JAXB,
JAXP.
Experience in Service Oriented Architecture using Web Services like SOAP & Restful.
Experienced in writing simple Stored Procedures, understanding complex Stored Procedures and
Performance Tuning of SQL Queries.
Hands on experience in giving Production and Deployment Support.
Strong experience in UNIX and Linux.
Extensively worked on new requirement and enhancements to meet the client requirements.
Experience in Design and Development of custom software solutions, and Re-engineering to enhance
Existing frameworks to work with newer technologies
Experience in SOA and Web Services and its various aspects of integration with Application Servers.
Experience with UML for designing applications using Rational Rose and QSEE.
Client interaction for requirement gathering/business process mapping, finalization of technical and
Functional specifications.
Developed and deployed EJBs on BEA Web Logic 8.0/7.1 application server.
Extensive experience in SOAP, XML and WSDL (Web Services).
Good experience in Version control using CVS, SVN.
Experience in using Junit for unit testing and Test-Driven Development.
Design, development, testing, troubleshooting and debugging of the web application
Strong command on Bug tracking tools like Bugzilla and other like Quality Center.
Experience in design and development with tools like Eclipse, My Eclipse
3 years’ experience on Iterative development using Agile Scrum Methodology included iterative   application development, weekly Sprints, stand up meetings and customer reporting backlogs
Technical Skills:
Languages	Java/ J2EE, Groovy, Scala, Go, Kotlin, C, C++, HTML, DHTML, SQL.
Operating system	Windows, Unix.
Java Technologies	Core Java, JDBC, Hibernate, JSF, XML Parsers, JSP, Servlets,
Portals, EJB, JMS, Java Swing, JavaBeans, Web Services, Microservices, OSGI, Spring, Spring Cloud, Spring Boot,
Frame Works		Struts 1.x/2.x, Hibernate 3.x, Spring 2.5/3.0, Jackrabbit, Groovy on Rails 2.x, Apache Sling
XML Technologies	XML, SAX, DOM, XSL, XSLT, XPath, WSDL, SOAP, Rest
Web Technologies	HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery and Angular JS
Servers	IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, Apache, WebLogic, JBoss.
Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBOSS 4.x/3.x
RDBMS                                                           Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL.
NoSQL                                                            MongoDB, Elastic Search, Couchbase, Cassandra, Hbase.
Cloud	AWS, AWS EC2, AWS IAM, AWS load balancing, Route53, AWS SQS, AWS    LAMBDA, AWS EFS, AWS KINESIS, AWS, PIVOTAL CLOUD FOUNDRY, REDHAT OPENSHIFT, KUBERNETES, MESOSPHERE, DOCKER, SPRING CLOUD, Ansible, Puppet.
Tools	Eclipse, WSAD, RAD, CVS, JBuilder, JDeveloper, Ant, Maven
Concepts	UML, Design Patterns.
CMS:                                                  AEM 6.0, CQ 5.5, 5.6, 5.6.1, JCR/Apache Sling, Day CRX, Components, Adobe DAM Digital
Education:
Bachelor’s in Computer Science - Osmania University, India                                                                   June 2004 – April 2008
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
Client: Quality Software Services, Inc (QSSI), Columbia MD                                                                        Feb 2017 - Present
Role: Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Project Description: Quality Software Services, Inc. (QSSI), a subsidiary of United Health Group, is an American software services company. It is one of the contractors working on the website for Healthcare Marketplaces. QSSI specializes in providing management of Information Technology applications to federal and state governments, commercial and healthcare organizations.
Responsibilities:
Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.
Designed the front-end screens using Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Spring Boot.
Involved in CQ5/AEM related design and framework development using templates, components widgets, CQ5 bundles, JCR/Sling API, configuring Cloud Services, publish and author set-up.
Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and developed HTML templates with various Angular directives such as ng-app, ng-controller, ng-repeat, ng-if, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-change, ng-blur etc.
Used various Angular UI Bootstrap components such as calendars, masks, uploaders, sliders, alerts, modal dialogs etc. for developing the UI.
Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.
Developed reporting dashboards, which processes large amount data that are stored in Elastic Search and My SQL platforms and generates reports and displays in dashboards.
Identified and created indexes, mappings and data in Elastic search and used Elastic Search REST API’s both single and multi-document API’s. API’s like Index, Multi Get, Bulk etc.
Used various aggregations like Metrics, Average aggregations in Elastic Search.
Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma and performed end to end testing using Protractor and Selenium
Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.
Extensive knowledge on AWS EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load balancing and other parts of AWS infrastructure.
Worked on AWS multi factor authentication (MFA) related to security groups including rest security.
Configured and tuned the AWS EC2 and worked on ELB, Route53 for high availability.
Implemented Micro services architecture using Spring BOOT enabled REST API with the Spring Cloud modules.
Worked on Integration of Microservices deployment patterns with the PAAS platform on top of AWS and Integrating with the Config server and ZUUL proxy.
Experience on configuring auto scalable and highly available microservices set with monitoring and logging using AWS, Docker, Jenkins and Splunk
Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions.
Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.
Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the rest based services and used Junit and Mockito to test the middleware services.
Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAO’s to access data from database.
Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) and Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used GruntJS, BowerJS, Express from NodeJS.
Involved in enhancing existing MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack applications and provided the required support.
Involved in configuration and usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes. Used RAD as IDE tool to develop the application.
Prepared Documentation for Unit Test Plan and Unit Test Results for the QA purpose. Participated in the release night shakeouts/overnight deliveries and QA Support.
Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.
Environment: Java 8, STS, Tomcat 7, Spring Tool Suite, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Elastic Search, RESTful Web Service, Oracle, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AngularJS, Express, JavaScript, GIT, JMS, Jenkins, Agile, JIRA tool, Selenium, Log4j, Maven, AWS, Docker, OAuth2, Cloud Foundry, Kubernetes, Splunk, Dyntatrace, Apache Kafka, React, Node JS, Jenkins, Cassandra, Couchbase, Hazelcast, Mule API Gateway, Cucumber JVM.
Client: AT&T Wifi Services, Austin - TX.                                                                                                             Oct 2015 – Jan 2017
Role: Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Project Description: AT&T WIFI Services is one of the Instore Wifi Network which will provide and maintain WIFI services
Based on the requested capacity. These application and services are consumed by many other Wifi applications, AT&T end customers and internal staff. The complete requested information is maintained in a database along with the payment information.
Responsibilities:
Involved in developing real time application for the daily moving trades in Futures and Commodities market.
Worked on junit framework for unit testing.
Involved in deploying applications into QA, DEV and UAT environments.
Involved in using Core java concepts – Collections, Networking, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Concurrency, Serialization and Data Structures.
Involved in designing 3 various application implementing SPRING MVC Architecture.
Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.
Writing standalone Java classes, reusable components using JDBC and Java Beans for getting data from SQL tables.
Configured session timeout with Spring Boot in server side and implemented auto logout functionality.
Used Gradle to build and deploy the application on web logic server.
Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.
Performing unit-testing using Jasmine, Karma and end-to-end testing using Protractor.
Developing APIs to support Angular JS UI migration, and XSDs to build web services data.
Created Micro services for Account, Permissions modules.
Implementing the Spring Security and validated the form developed using JSP.
Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node Js, React Js.
Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database transactions.
Developed Message Driver Beans to receive the messages from the EMS Provider.
Used SVN for version control and used IntelliJ as the IDE for developing the application.
Worked on Struts, HTML5, logic, bean tags in JSP.
Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI and REST web services using REST Client.
Developed Unix shell (ksh) scripts to automate most of the engineering and testing.
Designed and developed Oracle 12c PL/SQL batch and real-time processes for loading data from internal and external systems using SQL Loader and External tables.
Defined Web Services using XML-based Web Services Description Language.
Responsible for Detail design and GUI development.
Developing RESTFUL Web services using Spring boot, Spring RESTFUL template, JPA2.1
Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR and dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto the Web Logic Application Server.
Used RAD for developing web components such as JSP, Controller tier that includes action classes and business tier that includes EJB 3.1.
Developed frontend of application using Boot Strap (Model, View, Controller), Backbone.js, Angular.js framework.
Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.
Responsible for customer interaction, analysis of the requirements and project scheduling.
Written SQL and stored procedures as part of database interaction.
Worked with NoSQL database to store JSON like dynamic connections data.
Database design and connectivity done by using JDBC Bridge.
Implemented the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with Oracle 12c and MSSQL database for CRUD operations.
Implemented Dynamic batch feature for batch processing with Spring batch.
Developed and implemented code on new requirements as a developer using Spring MVC and Hibernate by using Agile Methodology.
Strong experience of developing data models using Hibernate ORM tools, POJOs and configuring Hibernate persistence layer.
Ran Bower and Grunt components and wrote the scripting using Node.js.
Developing or maintaining a production-level cloud-based architecture in AWS, including creating machine Images like AMI.
Designed and developed UI screens with JSP and JSF 2.1 to provide interactive screens to display data.
Configured DICOM TCP/IP and FTP transfer through web and networking by using Java, XML, and HTML5.
Experience in implementing Web Services (SOAP, WSDL) using Axis framework.
Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and JQuery.
Expose the platform and application level core API’s as RESTful web services and implement application workflows in rich user interfaces using JQuery.
Exposure to NoSQL database programming- Apache Cassandra
Product enhancement and implement solutions for multi-tenant J2EE based legacy enterprise product enabling as Cloud based deployment and higher availability and scalability.
Good working experience with various operating system platforms including Windows, UNIX and LINUX.
Developed Hibernate DAO classes and with the Spring Framework manager classes retrieve and save the data from the database.
Rewrote the company’s primary software application in Java using AWT and Swing with MS SQL Server for the database.
Used MongoDB to create modem applications never before possible at a fraction of the cost of legacy databases.
Developed and used MS SQL stored procedures to improve performance and to reduce the amount of code in Java.
Configured JDBC with SQL/PLSQL for database connectivity.
Implemented Struts Bean Tags, Logical Tags and Display Tags in JSPs.
Developed Message Driver Beans to receive the messages from the JMS provider.
Worked on different Web applications Servers like Web Sphere, BEA WebLogic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss 7.x
As a team, we have followed Software Development Life Cycle.
Environment: Java1.8, Core Java, Concurrency, multithreading, J2EE, Data Structures, JSP, EJB3.1, Servlets, JSF 2.1, Hibernate, Web Services, SQL Server, Spring Boot, IntelliJ, JPA 2.1, Agile, Spring batch, Tomcat, Micro services, Web Logic App Server, Angular js, RAD, Windows, JBoss7.x, Jenkins, Gradle, Git, Backbone js, Cassandra, HTML5, CSS3, MSSQL, MongoDB, AJAX, Node.js, NoSQL, React.js, JQuery, AWS, JAV script, Unix, Struts, Applets, Eclipse3.x/4.x, Oracle 12c, Unix and Linux.
Client: VISA Inc., Austin, TX                               					                                   Jan 2015 – Sep 2015
Role: Full Stack Java Developer
Project Description: Project Suspicious activity reporting is a full scope project, which does the active searches and generates reports and alerts based on the criteria set. This project helps to timely monitor and pro-actively respond to frauds and keep an active check on different transactions. This project has various dashboards for different type of reporting.
Visa internal portal of payment transactions needed to be exposed as REST APIS to feed to multiple partners of organization. Need of migration of legacy apps to micro services to deploy independently and scale as containers and implement the security over containers in hybrid cloud environment.
Responsibilities:
Involved in Core Java concepts like Collections, Multi-threading and Serialization.
Developed Portal using frameworks like react.js, Node.js and Express.js
Developed User Interface POC based on MVC frameworks like JSF, Spring MVC.
Implemented RESTful web services using Angular.js on front-end, spring framework on back-end and Hibernate framework for ORM, Microsoft Azure for authentication and authorization.
Worked on developing Web services like SOAP and REST Web service.
Used XML parsers to parse the data during web service calls to SOAP and Restful APIs.
Used spring boot to provide defaults for code and annotation configuration to quickly start the application.
Designed and developed Micro services business components using Spring Boot.
Designed and Developed User Interactive (UI) Web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and NodeJS.
Used Microsoft Azure for role based access for authentication and authorization purpose.
For activity workflow, used relational databases like MySQL.
Used Spring Data Mongo DB as the persistence framework in retrieving the user and medical benefits details from Mongo DB.
Wrote Restful web services to communicate with Mongo DB and performed CRUD operations on Mongo DB using restful web services.
Involved in development of SQL Queries.
Involved in writing queries, stored procedures, and modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.
Involved in building POM files and Maven testing.
Used GitHub extensively as versioning tool and used Maven for automated building of projects.
Used Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous Deployment.
Used JIRA for issue and bug tracking
Involved in preparation of Unit test cases and System test plans for various functionalities using JUnit.
Used the Eclipse as IDE, configured and deployed the application onto Tomcat server.
Environment: Java1.8, Core Java, Mutli-threading, Serialization, OOPS, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, spring security, JSF,
SOAP, REST, HTML5, CSS3, java script, Node.js, React.js, Express.js, Angular.js, Spring boot, Micro services, GitHub, Jenkins, Microsoft Azure, SQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, JIRA, Maven, JUnit, Git, Tomcat, Eclipse IDE, Windows.
Client: United Services Automobile Association, San Antonio, TX.                                                             May 2014- Dec 2014
Role: Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Project Description: The United Services Automobile Association (USAA) is a Texas-based Fortune500 diversified financial services group of companies including a Texas Department of Insurance regulated reciprocal inter-insurance exchange and subsidiaries offering banking, investing, and insurance to people and families that serve, or served, in the United States military. USAA was founded in 1922 by a group of U.S. Army officers as a mechanism for mutual self-insurance when they were unable to secure auto insurance because of the perception that they, as military officers, were a high-risk group.
Responsibilities:
Actively involved in Requirement gathering meetings with the Clients and Participated in project planning sessions with business analysts and team members to analyze business IT Requirements and translated business requirements into working model.
Developed the application using Spring Framework which is based on the MVC Design pattern.
Developed application using JSP custom tag libraries, Struts Action classes and Action. Designed Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards.
Extensively used Thread API for multithreading.
Worked with Data Structures, Multithreading, Networking, Concurrency and core java concepts like Collections Framework, Serialization, Multithreading and Memory management.
End-end design and implementation using Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA2.1, Hibernate.
Worked with Session Factory, ORM mapping, Transactions and HQL in Hibernate framework.
Developed Micro services and Restful web services using JAX-WS.
Used JSP for presentation layer, developed high performance object/relational persistence and query service for entire application utilizing Hibernate.
Used MVC based Struts framework to develop the multi-tier web application presentation layer components.
Involved in daily scrum meetings, sprint planning, sprint Demos using Agile Methodology
Converted EJB 3.1 MDB’s into spring MDP’s using Spring JMS module.
Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.
Worked on JASMINE for unit testing and Protractor tests for end to end testing in UI.
Implemented Oracle 12c Migration in J2EE applications with Data integration and validation.
Implementation of front end JSP/JSF 2.1 and backing beans.
Developed application using Angular.JS and Node.js connecting to Oracle on the backend.
Developing APIs to support Angular JS UI migration, and XSDs to build web service data.
Responsible for implementing new enhancements and fixing defects using Java, JSP, JSF2.1, spring and Hibernate.
Developed Session beans which encapsulate the workflow logic and used Hibernate to access data.
Proficient in using RDBMS concepts with MySQL, SQL Server, MSSQL and Oracle 12c and experience in writing SQL, PLSQL, functions, stored procedures, triggers and views.
Involved in the design of the Referential Data Service module to interface with various databases using JDBC.
Used AJAX in suggestive search and to display dialog boxes with JSF 2.1 and DOJO for some front end.
Used the DAO Pattern and J2EE framework facilitated the integration and deployment of DAO, Servlets, JSP and XML
Worked on REST Framework to create web services.
Diagnose and solve JBoss 7.x ESB Application performance and stability issues.
Worked with project management tools such as Jira, pivotal Tracker, CI/CD tools such as Jenkins.
Created Restful web services/API’s using Node JS.
Extensively used XML and Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB), to map java classes to XML representation.
Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Backbone js, and JQuery.
Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.
Have experience with React Js environment even. We create some user interfaces according to the requirements of the clients.
Designed and implemented Oracle objects such as triggers and stored procedures and cursors that allow the database to incorporate business rules.
Running the unit test cases Junit test, protractor tests on backend.
Used Spring4 x MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Security modules to integrate with MongoDB to implement the persistence layer in Hibernate.
Developing or maintaining a production-level cloud-based architecture in AWS including creating machine Images like AMI.
Configured and monitored numerous Cassandra, NoSQL instances
Web Services (SOAP) were developed and published using JAX-WS and JAX-RS.
Involved in coding, maintaining, and administering EJB 3.1s, Servlets, and JSP components to be deployed on a Web Logic application server.
Used Log4j to provide central logging facility, comes under singleton design pattern.
Worked on AWS, High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.
Used Junit, Mockito framework for unit testing of application and implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology
Synchronized the Create, Update and delete of records between Legacy Database (DB2V10) and Cassandra 1.2.8.
Created stored procedures, SQL Statements and triggers for the effective retrieval and storage of data into database
Installed and configured MS SQL Server, IIS and SharePoint Server 2007 to run the new employee Intranet, which I designed and deployed.
Involved in coding, code reviews, Junit testing, Prepared and executed Unit Test Cases.
Environment: J2EE  (Java 1.7,1.8, Core Java, multithreading, Concurrency,  Data Structures,  EJB 3.1, JMS, JNDI, Java Mail, JSP, JSF, XML, JDBC,  Angular js, Servlets and JSP), JPA 2.1 ,JIRA,  Struts, NoSQL, Cassandra, Hibernate, Ajax, Spring MVC, swing, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX,  JBoss7.x, AWS, Backbon,  JQuery, Junit, Node.js,  React.js,  SOAP, Micro services,  Log4j, UML, JDBC, DB2, MQ Series, Jenkins, Git,  WebSphere,  WebLogic 8.1, Eclipse3.x/4.x,  Oracle 12c, Windows, , Unix and Linux.
Client: PNC Bank, Pittsburg, PA                                                                                                                         Oct 2012 – Apr 2014
Role: Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Project Description: This is an Online Web Portal used by customers to register, sign-on, to access account history, transfers, profile management and perform transactions. The application is Online Banking System is a Web based application, based on the MVC architecture Responsibilities:
Responsibilities:
As part of the lifecycle development prepared class model, sequence model and flow diagrams by analyzing Use cases using Rational Tools.
Developing the Presentation layer and Value Objects.
Extensive use of Struts Framework for Controller components and view components.
Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.
Involved in developing the user interface using JSF.
Reviewing and analyzing data model for
Built cloud formation stacks utilizing JSON templates to deploy micro services as part of Jenkins.
Involved in writing the validation rules classes for general server-side validations for implementing validation rules as part observer J2EE design pattern.
Used Hibernate for the persistence of the project.
Worked on JavaScript and JQuery for Data Validations and Dynamic tables.
Spring framework was used for dependency injection and was integrate with different frameworks like Struts, Hibernate
Developed various java objects (POJO) as part of persistence classes for OR mapping.
Involved in migration of the application from Sun Java Application server to Glassfish 3.2 environment.
Developed web services using SOAP and WSDL with Axis.
Implemented EJB 3.1 (Message Driven Beans) in the Service Layer.
Involved in working with JMS MQ Queues (Producers/Consumers) in Sending and Receiving Asynchronous messages via MDB’s.
Developed, implemented, and maintained an asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience using XML data and XSLT templates.
My SQL and MS SQL database design.
Design applications on AWS taking advantage of disaster recovery design guidelines
Application deployment and data migration on AWS.
Used Readers and Writers provided by Spring Batch to create various Batch jobs.
Expertise with Jboss Application server and Apache tomcat web server.
In depth knowledge and hands-on in patterns and Practices, Software Design and Methodologies – Enterprise Library Blocks, MVC, Agile, Waterfall, paired Programming.
Used JIRA as an issue tracker tool for collaborating testers and functional team as well as tracking defects and change requests.
Worked on WebSphere Portal integration with WBISF in getting Work items raised by the process flows from WBISF.
Created dynamic HTML pages, used JavaScript, design the front-end components.
Worked with Angular JS Expressions, Directives, Controllers and filters.
Application backend implemented as node.js express application server.
Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js and Node.js.
Involved in writing the parsers for parsing and building the XML documents using SAX and DOM Parsers.
Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.
Development carried out under My Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE).
Used JBoss for deploying various components of application and MAVEN as build tool and developed build file for compiling the code of creating WAR files.
Familiar with queries and stored procedures on MySQL and MS SQL database.
Used CVS for version control.
Performed Unit testing and rigorous integration testing of the whole application.
FIX protocol is being used in communications such as submission, reporting and messaging between personalities.
Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, multithreading, JSF 1.2 – Icefaces 1.8, EJB, Agile, JMS, Spring Boot, Strut2, JBoss 5.1, My Eclipse, Hibernate, JSP, JSTL, AJAX, CVS, JavaScript, JQuery, JPA 2.1, WebSphere, Spring batch, Used Readers and Writers provided by Spring Batch to create various Batch jobs. HTML5, Node.js, RAD, Angular js, Micro services, XML, AWS, MAVEN 2.x, SQL, Oracle, SAX and DOM Parser, EasyMock, Eclipse3.x/4.x, Git, Webservice (SOAP, WSDL), SPRING, FIX protocol.
Client: Macy’s, Johns Creek, GA                                                                                                                          Jun 2011 – Sep 2012
Role: Java/J2EE Developer
Project Description: A virtual shopping mall that never closes, QVC is a place where customers can, and do, shop at any hour, at the rate of two customers per second and introduces 250 new products every week. The merchandising team requires a process to create ensemble groupings and to populate them on the site as well as having the ability to maintain the ensembles by being alerted to low inventory levels.
Responsibilities:
Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed
Using AGILE methodology.
Involved in Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.
Developed application using JSP custom tag libraries, Struts Action classes and Action. Designed Java Servlets and Objects using J2EE standards
Developed complex algorithms like the CRR Binomial to calculate the option pricing using Core java technologies like collections, Concurrency, Serialization, Multi-threading and Data Structures.
Designed and developed entire application implementing SPRING MVC Architecture
Implementation of Unit testing on Angular JS using Protractor Testing tool.
Designed and developed command center application and configured email alerts to health check the functionality of various applications.
Used spring framework for implementing IOC/JDCB/ORM, AOP and Spring Security.
Consumed Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting required information from third the different application.
Used Maven to build and deploy the application on web logic server.
Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate framework in conjunction with spring functionality.
Developed web applications using JAVA/J2EE technologies MVC, spring, Spring Boot, JAX-WS, JSP and Angular Js.
Configured Hibernates second level cache using EH Cache to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.
Hands-on Software Development background including architecture, design, and implementation, with particular expertise in Node.js, React.js, Java, Unix and Distributed Systems.
Developed Microservices using Restful web services.
Set up Maven project and Jenkins server for build and release management.
Good understanding of NoSQL Data bases and hands on work experience in writing application on No SQL databases.
Installing and Configuring Eclipse and WebSphere application server.
Developed the System using core Java, Servlets, EJB, JPA, JSF.
Node.js used to proxy requests Java web services, as well as store application preferences.
Design and Modify UI and adding functionality using HTML, JSP, JQuery Backbone js, and JavaScript.
Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology
Responsible for implementing the transaction management in the application by applying Spring AOP methodology.
Worked with NoSQL Cassandra to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for Ethernet provisioning and customer order tracking.
MSSQL database design
Developed SQL and PLSQL queries for Oracle.
Jboss to Epass migration of code.
Wrote the MS SQL queries to retrieve the information from the database.
Used Bootstrap and Angular.js in effective web design.
Designing and deploying scalable, highly available and fault tolerant systems on AWS.
Developed various reports by using Am Charts API.
Used Restful Web Services to inserted, deleted and updated add details and their information will be used by other two applications.
Used SVN for version control and used STS as the IDE for developing the application.
Used Sql Server as backend database using Windows OS. Involved in development of Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers.
Implemented Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into Oracle database and SAS/SQL for creating patient profiles for the investigators.
Configured Apache to proxy the backend Jboss domains over HTTPS for secured communication.
Involved in maintenance of applications using spring batch processing. Involved in refactoring logic from Mat lab to Java
Environment: JDK 1.7, Core Java, multithreading, Concurrency, WebSphere, Data Structures, Sql Server, Struts 1.3, Spring batch, Apache POI, AWS, Spring Boot, Micro services, Jenkins, Hibernate 4.0, NoSQL, JSF, spring 3.5, Xml, JUnit, JQuery, Maven, Node.js, React.js, Angular js, Backbone js, MSSQL, Git, SQL Server, Restful Web Services, Web logic, Cassandra, SVN, STS and Tomcat, Ant, Eclipse, RAD, Unix and Linux.
Client: Next Education Pvt. Ltd., India.                                                                                                              Aug 2010- May 2011
Role: Java Developer
Project Description: Next Education Pvt. Ltd. is an e-learning company which develops online e-learning tutorials for the children of KG to Grade 12. The content of the product involves interactive activities and simulations which will be retrieved from the Server. Product Tracks the user information and store in the Server which allows the user to access the account from anywhere through web. NE has customers which include college students, School Students, Lecturers, teachers and many other Schools.
Responsibilities:
Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications
Designed and developed the user interface using Struts 1.3, JQuery, JavaScript, XHTML
Designed front-end, data driven GUI using Struts, HTML, JavaScript, DOJO and CSS.
Implemented Web Services for communicating one application to another application by using SOAP, WSDL
and EJB Technology
Developed asynchronous, rich user interface with AJAX and rich Internet application embedded with Flex to get user information from the server and project to user.
Designed, implemented and deployed J2EE web application using Struts 1.3and Spring IOC.
Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.
Deployed project war files on JBOSS server on the AWS cloud for the Go-live.
Implemented business processes to develop email notification components using JMS API.
Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database
Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.
Environment: Java 1.6, Servlets, JSP, Struts 1.3, Hibernate3.2, EJB, JMS, JQuery, Spring 2.5, XML, CSS, Flex, Eclipse, HTML, AWS, Tomcat, Java Script, Git, SQL Server, Oracle10g.
Client: Analytix Data Services, INDIA                                                                                                               May 2009 – July 2010
Role: Java Developer
Project Description: Analytix Data Services is a software company that provides specialized data mapping and ETL tools for Data Integration, Data Management and Enterprise Application Integration, worked as a Java Developer in the manufacturing domain to develop web applications for clients.
Responsibilities:
Developed the components in the application using Core Java.
Extensively used Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions, Concurrency, Serialization, Collections and Data Structures.
Used JDBC to execute prepared SQL statements in Java against MySQL database.
Mapped and managed Object/table relationships in Hibernate.
Implemented business logic using Servlets.
Developed spring Application using Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC and Spring DAO.
Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.
Followed the overall application MVM architecture to create MVC layers in Angular JS and Node JS layers.
Used the Node.js, backbone.js and ext.js MVC framework in the development of the application.
Developed Java SOAP and REST Web services using JAX-WS and JAX-RS.
Developed Web services in Java and Experienced with SoapUI and WSDL.
Implemented and Consumed REST Web Services.
Used JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript for content layout and presentation
Produced SQL queries to provide data as requested by clients from MySQL database.
Used Eclipse IDE for application development.
Component Testing using Junit and testing.
Deployed web applications on Tomcat and JBoss server.
Environment: Java SE, Java EE, Core Java, Concurrency, Multithreading, Data Structures, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, SOAP, REST, HTML, JSP, CSS, Node.js, JavaScript MySQL, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat, Maven and JBoss, Junit, Unix and Linux.