Vikas
Sr. Java/J2EE Developer
Email: vikas.developer8@gmail.com                                                                                          Mobile: 773-688-9056
Professional Summary:
Over 8+ years of IT experience in Design, Development, Support and Implementation of Web based applications using JAVA/J2EE Technologies (Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, XML, spring, JUNIT, Hibernate, and Restful API). Worked in IDEs such as Eclipse, WSAD and Net Beans, spring tool suite.
Experienced in implementing Enterprise Applications with each phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Reviews, Coding, Unit and Integration Testing.
Designed & developed several multi-tier Web based, Standalone, Distributed, Client-Server and Multithreaded applications using Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) concepts and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) mostly in cross-platform environments.
Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and Git Hub and AWS AMIs to run the war, AMI and deploy jobs in Jenkins brew master instance, which reduces the time for the deployment of micro services. Migrated Spring based application to Cloud based Micro service API.
Extensive experience with advanced Java and J2EE technologies like Servlets JSP, EJB, JDBC, Struts 1.2/2.x, JMS, JSF My Faces, JPA, JNDI, JSTL, JTA, JAX-WS, JAX_RS, Spring and Hibernate.
Extensive knowledge of front end technologies like AJAX, JSP, JSPF, JavaScript, jQuery, Backbone.js, Underscore.js, YUI, HTML5, and CSS.  Expertise in using build/deploy tools such as Ant, Maven, JUnit and Jenkins. Used Spring Boot created REST API's per application business to perform search using elastic java sdk.
Designed the application by implementing JSF Framework based on MVC Architecture, simple Java Beans as a Model, JSP and JSF UI Components as View and Faces Servlet as a Controller.
Extensive experience in working on projects with Waterfall and Agile methodologies such as Test-Driven Development (TDD) and SCRUM. Hands on experience with database tools like Toad for Oracle, DB2, SQL Server. Good Knowledge on Service Oriented, Microservices architectures and Enterprise Service Bus(ESB).
Hands on experience with various Application Servers and Web Servers including IBM Web Sphere 6.x/7.x, Oracle Web logic, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat server 6.x/7.x/8.x, XAMPP 1.7.x/1.8.x with wide variety of development environments such as Eclipse IntelliJ, WSAD 5.0, My Eclipse, IBM RAD 6/7/8, NetBeans, Notepad++, Sublime text, Dreamweaver and Brackets. Good working knowledge on business rules engine like Drools. Experience in developing of web applications using Google Web Toolkit (GWT), GXT, AngularJS, Vaadin.
Expertise in Client Scripting language and server-side scripting languages like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSTL, AJAX, jQuery, Ext-JS, JSON, Dojo, bootstrap, AngularJS and node.js.
Developed web applications utilizing jQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Struts, Java/J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JAX-RS, RESTful Web Services, SOAP Web Services, Spring Framework, Hibernate Framework, XML, JSON, Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, Tomcat, Maven, Jetty, Spring JMS, JBOSS, JDBC and WebLogic.
Extensive experience with SOAP Web Services, RESTful Web Services, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring WS-Security, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, Spring Boot, Hibernate Framework, Servlets, JSP, Struts, JDBC, Oracle.
Strong working knowledge of RDBMS concepts having worked with MySQL, Sybase, Oracle 10g, MongoDB and DB2. Hands-on experience with IBM MQ Series and JMS communications between middleware components.
Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.
Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and create snapshots for the data that must be stored in AWS S3. Good understanding on NoSQL databases like Mongo DB and Cassandra.
Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), AspectJ, IOC (Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and template classes. Good knowledge and experience in writing queries for SQL, Oracle 8i/ 9i/ 10g/11g.
Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML. Worked on Web Services testing using Selenium IDE, and Selenium RC Server, Selenium Grid/Web Driver Testing, SOAPUI and Testing.
TECHNICAL SKILLS:
Internet Technologies: Core Java, J2EE (EJB, JMS), Struts, Spring, Hibernate, IBM MQ Series, log4j, XML, Dom, AJAX
Frameworks: JSP/Servlet, Java Script, HTML, AngularJS Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JSF, JUnit, Jasper reports, SOAP UI, Groovy
Tools: SVN, CVS, Perforce, Serena PVCS, GIT, Jira, Confluence, SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, CFX, AWS, Micro services
Middleware: J2EE (MDB, JMS). IBM MQ, SOA
Design Patterns: Java Design Pattern [Abstract Factory, Factory Method, Singleton, Builder, MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns, Bridge, Decorator, Adapter, Chain of Responsibility, Command], J2EE Design Patterns [Front Controller, Business Delegate, Session Façade, Data Access Object and Value Object]
Webservices: Spring based Restful, SOAP, WSDL, SoapUI
Application Servers: IBM WebSphere 8.5.5, Oracle WebLogic Server 11g, JBOSS Server 8.0.0 and Tomcat 8.0.9.
Databases: Oracle, Mongo DB 3.1, MySQL, DB2
Operating Systems: Windows 2000 / NT 4.0 / 98 / XP/Vista/7/8/10, Mac, Sun Solaris, Red Hat Linux, Unix
IDE: Eclipse Mars.2 Release (4.5.2), IBM Rational Software Architect and IBM Rational Application Developer, PL/SQL Developer
Other Tools: IBM RAD, SQL*Plus, SQL Navigator, MS Office Suite, MS Project, Rational Paradigm, JUnit, TOAD, Soap UI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, RTC, StarTeam, Mockito
Build Tools: Maven, ANT
Mark-up/XML: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, JSON
Professional Experience:
Walmart, Bentonville, AR                                                                                                               April 2017 to Present
Role: Java fullstack Developer.
Project Description: Walmart mainly focuses on developing a Retail application for selling products such as printer, scanners, floppy, office accessories, sheets etc. The motive of Walmart is to provide quick service to the consumer who needs quick purchase of office accessories both in lesser and bulk quantities. Generation of internal feeds like Coupons, Rebates and Campaigns are additional challenges. It requires technical expertise as well as domain knowledge.
Responsibilities:
Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).
Developed and designed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, React.JS, Node.JS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Ext.JS and Bootstrap.
Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry, the connection/service binding details are injected from the deployed cloud platform itself.
Involved in build process, modifying the Gradle files, compiling the code building, packaging the WAR file and deploying onto various Tomcat servers in UNIX environments.
Designed Java Components and integrated using spring framework with Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism. Worked on web application security enhancements using OWASP.
Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.
Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, and Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security. Implemented service methods and SQL queries, SQL to interact with the forms.
Experienced in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts. Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application. Application was deployed using JBOSS.
Implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and Spring Micro Services and enabled discovery using Netflix Eureka Server. Created web services using Spring Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend.
Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from SQL Server.
Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security.
Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class. Development carried out under STS Integrated Development Environment (IDE).
Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.
Involved in creating Mongo DB collections and documents and developed Mongoose Schema objects to perform CRUD operations. Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.
Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with LINUX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.
Used MAVEN to define the dependencies and build the application and used JUnit for suite execution and Assertions. Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management.
Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.
Environment: Java, Agile, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular JS, React.JS, JSTL, J Query, AJAX, AWS EC2, S3, Micro Services, Hibernate, Spring, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, RESTful API, SOA, JAX-RS, JSON, SQL, Node.JS, Oracle, CRUD, CI, CD, Jenkins, multithreading, JIRA, Rabbit MQ, React Native, Gradle, MAVEN, J Unit, UNIX, STS, IBM Web Sphere, Log4J, GIT
Wells Fargo, Charlotte, NC								June 2016 to March 2017
Role: Java Full Stack Developer
Project: Core Sales & Fulfillment Mortgage System
Project Description: Core is an initiative to re-architect and redesign retail mortgage application management process by integrating both sales and fulfillment. This application manages a loan application from the initiation of a loan application till its funding, thereby reducing the logistics and manual process involved in the product sales and fulfillment process. Sales users gather all the required information from the applicants and submit the loan to the fulfillment process. Fulfillment processors will take up the loan after it is submitted and processes until the funds disbursed. It has major components like Loan Status, Application Management, Pricing, Closing/Funding, Decisioning, Document Generation, Vendors and Stipulations
Responsibilities:
Worked with Requirement leads, Architect and Project managers to translate business requirements into technical specifications. Developed rich user interface UI's using Bootstrap directives.
Involved in implementation of server layer services like business services, entity services and integration services. Developed WebPages using UI frameworks, Angular JS and Ext JS.
Worked on business modules like Loan status, Application Management, Assets, Closing/Funding and Product Pricing. Utilized features of Spring Core layer and Spring DAO support layer to develop the application.
Built an API facade layer using NodeJS (with express-JS). Developed reusable AngularJS directives.
Converted UI screens from XMI (XML Metadata Interchange) framework to AngularJS framework which resulted in better performance and reduced code count.
Developed AngularJS Controllers which isolates scope to perform operations in UI. Developed reusable code and libraries for future use by creating services/factories and injected them to controllers using Dependency Injection. Used NoSQL DB like Mongo DB for the proof of concept.
Configured Hibernate into a Spring application and used Spring's DAO support to build Hibernate DAO classes.
Used Object Oriented Design and Object-Oriented Programming concepts of Core JAVA like Polymorphism, Multithreading, Inheritance, Interfaces, Generics, Collections and Socket Programming.
Persistence mechanism implemented using Hibernate framework utilizing table per subclass inheritance based mapping, component mapping and other association mapping strategies.
Developed JAX-WS and JAX-RPC SOA service binding producers and client implementation from WSDL contracts. Involved in development of individual Sprints with the help of GitHub.
Worked on variety of Frontend JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, JQuery, JQuery UI and good knowledge in EmberJS. Involved in fixing issues in IST, QA, UAT & Production environments.
Consumed RESTful Web services provided by different vendors to submit/fetch the Appraisal/Valuation Orders, Tax/Flood Orders and their statuses, and fetch Employment/Income information.
HQL and named queries are used throughout the application for consistency and maintainability.
Involved in the development of Job Scheduler software module using Apache open source Java based scheduler called as QUARTZ Scheduler and Spring HTTP INVOKER Webservice.
Developed data access object (DAO) layer for Job Scheduler module using Spring JDBC API (Stored Procedures).
Involved in writing SQL queries & PL/SQL - Stored procedures, function, triggers, cursors, object types, Cursors, sequences, indexes etc. Integration of spring modules with AWS modules to consume third party services.
Developed micro services as a strategy to gradually replace the fragile core monolithic Java application while still being able to add new business features. Used WordPress for managing.
Used ELK is stack of three, Elastic search - distributed restful search and analytics, Log stash - manage events and logs, Kibana - seamless integration with other technologies.
Used JBOSS application server for deploying the apps on different servers in different environments like Dev/QA/IST/Production. Used Splunk for server logs analysis and real-time defect tracking.
Expertise in front ends technologies such HTML, CSS, LESS, SASS, Java Script, ReactJS, AngularJS, GWT and AJAX. Implemented JavaScript test cases using Jasmine/Karma.
Performed bug tracking using JIRA and maintained documentation for using Confluence.
Implemented Unit Testing using JUnit, TestNG, Mockito/Power Mock and Selenium.
Involved in building the code & deploying on the server using tools Maven and Jenkins
Used Grunt-JS to test the JavaScript with Sonar Qube (with JS Hint, HTML Hint, etc. plugins), concatenate, minify and Gzip the source code as well as pass it through templates to create the Jasmine test codebase and made custom configurations for testing and deployment.
Used advanced java features like Lambda expressions for array operations, collections.
Enhanced Following Coding guide lines & maintain quality of code by checking with Sonar Qube /Sonar Lint
Providing On call support for Production and Integration environments.
Environment: Java 1.8, Spring 4.3.2, Hibernate 4.2, Web Services, REST, WSDL, SOAP, XML, XSD, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, NodeJS, HTML, CSS, Java Script, JSON, Oracle 11g, Oracle SQL developer, JBOSS Application server, Eclipse, Maven, TestNG, Camel, WordPress, Mockito, Jasmine/Karma, Power Mock, Selenium, Tortoise SVN, JIRA, Fish Eye, Confluence, Web Builder, Splunk, Sonar Qube/Sonar Lint, Windows 7, Linux, AWS, Docker.
Source Link, Kansas City, MO								July 2015 to May 2016
Role: Senior Java Developer
Description: Source Link which helps entrepreneur to start up his business. Source Link provide the full-service direct marketing agency that specializes in identifying, about what kind of costumers are best for their brand, what are the resources we can find to help improve your business and how can you get the funding for the growth of the business.
Responsibilities:
Analysis and understanding of business requirements and was one of the members in the architecture team for designing and implementing the system.
Participated in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).
Implemented the process using Agile (Scrum) methodology and Test-Driven Model.
Contributes and establishes the strategy / approach, Best Practices and methodology to PMO on how to Plan, manage, execute and report projects under Agile / Scrum Framework.
Involved in converting the application from Spring3.0 to Spring4.3 along with conversion to Standard Spring MVC, security features and integrated with the Hibernate framework.
Used Spring IOC for dependency Injection, Spring AOP for controlling the execution process of beans life cycle, Spring Batch to process the CSV files.
Spring framework and DAO classes using JPA framework for persistence management and involved in integrating the frameworks for the project. Developed Stored Procedures and Triggers on Oracle Database.
Used Hibernate 3.0 as ORM tool for data related functionalities, persistence layer and implemented transactions.
Implemented the DAO and Business Delegate design patterns. Used hibernate DAO objects for retrieving data from database (MYSQL) which were used in Hibernate mapping.
Developed front end user interface using HTML5, XML, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, JQuery and JSP2.0. Implemented a Continuous Delivery Pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub.
Using AngularJS created few HTTP Requests to few application related web API's got the results and stored them. Experience working with Cassandra. Developing RESTFUL web services using JPA, Cloud Foundry.
Designed the UX for the front-end using Twitter Bootstrap.
Developed Graphical User Interface (GUI) to display report data using JQuery in Cross-browser compatibility and Web Application Scaling. Used JSF expressions in rendering content and validation.
Built JavaScript functions to generate dynamic HTML components like table list, calendar, and spreadsheets and drop-down menus. Extensively used the Java collection Framework Classes for Holding the Application objects.
Experience in implementation of business applications using Web logic, WebSphere, IBM WebSphere Application and Portal Server (WAS/WPS), JBOSS and Tomcat.
Developed web application using JSF (Java Server Faces) framework backing classes and utility classes.
Implemented Web services using apache API and tested them using SOAP UI. Integrated the SOAP Web services to RESTful Web Services. JSF navigation configured in JSF configuration file and its backing beans.
Worked with DBA to understand the current data model and integrate new Tables within the existing Data Model. Used GIT version control system on the server side to maintain the latest snapshot of data.
Used Maven for integration and building of the project and used SOAP UI for testing the Web Services calls (Request and response formats and data).
Extensively involved in developing and writing Maven built scripts for automated build and deployment processes. Implemented Java security manager to access EJB (Elastic Java Beans) with Java security API.
Utilize Camel to integrate micro services with other microservices and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges.
Design and develop Microservices platform to support a multitude of enterprise level applications. Mentor to developers on JS best practices and server-side development.
Used JMS for communication between the applications and MQ for communicating with the third-party applications. Implemented EJB3 Annotations for Entities, Relations and Transactions.
Used Eclipse IDE for coding, developing applications and deployed to local WebSphere Application Server.
Worked closely with QA for fixing the bugs. Tested the whole application for errors line by line and used Log4J for logging all the application exceptions and debugging statements.
Used Jenkins and made the deployment automated and deployed the project on Amazon AWS.
Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, JSP 2.0, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Servlets 3.0, Hibernate 5.0.X, MAVEN, Spring 4.3, WebSphere Application Server, Eclipse Mars, REST and SOAP Web services, MYSQL, mango DB 3.2.9, UML, Visio, Log4J, UNIX, Soap UI, jQuery, HTML/HTML5, AJAX, Bootstrap, XML, GIT, JMS, JSF, EJB3, Jenkins, AWS, JUNIT, GIT.
Optima Health, WI						     	           		August 2014 to June 2015
Role: Java Developer
Description: Developed web application for brokers of small market health insurance for group or individual customers. Basic functionality was to get customer physical address, marital status, family health and their individual health information. After all the required information provided by customer application would figure out the best available health plan in small market and output to customers for their selection.
Responsibilities:
Involved in the complete SDLC including design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements. Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.
Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.
Designed and coded controller classes using J2SE that would talk to real hardware controller to access their states and gave the user control over the hardware through the multithreaded UI.
Analyzing business requirements and generate technical specifications to design software components and applications for middleware. Wrote scripts in UNIX to process the Batch Jobs on a scheduled basis.
Used HTML5, CSS, jQuery, AngularJS and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application. Used AngularJS and Backbone JS for client-side validation.
Created Single page application using Backbone JS and NodeJS to handle data flow.
Used JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the NodeJS environment.
Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes. Developed internal coding using J2EE technologies based on the MVC Architecture.
Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements.
Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations. Implemented Business Logic using Java, Spring MVC and Hibernate.
Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.
Developed messaging module using Spring JMS, Apache Camel and Active MQ, RabbitMQ.
Had experience in working with Messaging technologies like Apache Kafka. Used Cassandra for proof of concept.
Worked with Apache Kafka as a messaging service for activity tracking of an application.
Developed MySQL stored procedures and triggers using SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic. Implemented PL/SQL procedures and views in My SQL Database.
Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from AngularJS and parsed the data to project to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.
Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality. Written LINUX shell scripts to identify user login information.
Experienced with RAD development methodologies and Rational Clear case for version control.
Used JIRA ticketing system to keep track of issues and tasks on individuals.
Used Maven to build the application and deployed on IBM WebSphere Application Server.
Environment: JAVA, J2SE, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, J2EE, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Unix, Spring Data (Spring JDBC, Spring ORM), JSP, Hibernate, Web services, RESTful, RAD, WebSphere, Sonar Qube, Agile/Scrum Methodology, Maven, JIRA, JBOSS, Junit, TDD, MY SQL, LINUX GITHUB, Cassandra.
Macy’s, Atlanta, GA.   									October 2013 to July 2014
Role: Java Developer
Project Description: Macy's, is a premier chain of department stores owned by American multinational corporation Macy's, Inc. The IT department has successfully automated the Sales and marketing operations for the last seven years. My project tasks included marketing new costumes and cosmetics through web, mail and SMS media.
Achievement: Successfully developed and released two major back-end subsystems to support sales promotions and customized offers to Macys Star and Plenti reward card members.
Responsibilities:
Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJS, jQuery, CSS3 and HTML5.
Involved in designing and developed presentation layer using Ajax, jQuery, and third-party libraries.
Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.
Used Apache Cordova to build native mobile applications using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.
Used Adobe Experience manager(AEM) to manage and deliver digital experiences across websites.
Developed classes using core java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Memory Management.
Used Multithreading to develop various helper classes in programming to improve overall performance.
Used Spring DI, annotations, and MVC to implement business layer and navigation part of application.
Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize application's configuration properties for various environments.
Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservice with Eureka to monitor services from Spring Boot console.
Defined Hibernate Named Queries for Batch operations while defined Criteria Queries for Microservice.
Microservice have been built using Spring Boot, Spring security and deployed to AWS cloud.
Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging.
Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda Functions Including EC2, MongoDB focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.
Database required for creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes, constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.
Developed several REST webservice which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications. RESTful webservice using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.
Exposed and consumed SOAP based Webservice to communicate between systems.
Developed several SOAPS based JAX-WS Webservice interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability and JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol.
Used Redis as in memory database, for storing and fetching data in memory to increase the performance.
Used Apache Kafka for building real time data pipelines and for storing data in a distributed cluster.
Worked on Drools Rule Engines with corresponding to validate the business User Roles.
Used SOAP UI for Functional Testing, Performance Testing, Regression Testing and to test REST & SOAP.
Used Apigee for web-scale, enterprise flexibility on premise and hybrid deployment on single code base.
Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.
Developed codes in an immutable manner using Scala to apply concurrency and parallelism.
Developed Unit test cases using Junit, Mockito and Jenkins for continuous integration.
Used Kubernetes for automating deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications.
Used Docker to collaborate code, run and deliver more securely for both Linux, Windows Server.
Developed Maven scripts and builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.
Used log4j for logging and GIT, SVN for project management and version management.
Functional testing of the front-end applications is done using Selenium (IDE and Web Driver).
Developed, Tested and Debugged the Java, JSP using Eclipse RCP.
Deployed the application on WebSphere 8.5 application server.
Environment: Java 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJS, Swing, Threading, AWS cloud, Spring MVC,
Spring Boot, Spring Quartz, Hibernate Framework, Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, JAX-WS, PL/SQL, Oracle DB, Cassandra, JBOSS Drools 4.x, Docker, JMS, Maven, Jenkins, Apache Camel, SVN, JIRA.
CSC, Hyderabad, Telangana, India 						January 2012 to September 2013
Role: Java/ J2EE Developer
Project Description: The Objective of this project was to develop and enhance Warehouse Management system to facilitate information tracking for various warehouse products shipped from the dispatch centers to the locations where it should be placed according to the License Plate number. The application is developed in J2EE architecture using EJB’s, JSP and Servlets.
Responsibilities:
Prepared Analysis document and followed AGILE software development with Scrum methodology.
Developed the application on NodeJS platform using JavaScript programming.
Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.
Applied data transformation rules to transform code from one format to another format using NodeJS.
Created the Nodejs express server to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end.
Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server. Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database.
Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, SPRING, iBatis and Hibernate.
Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC, SPRING DAO, SPRING ORM and Spring Integration.
Involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC.
Expertise in Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), EJB, Serialization, and Java Beans.
Worked extensively on SPRING MVC framework to develop new internal web application.
Used Spring AOP components for the Logging, Exception handling and Transactional Models.
Enforce compliance with dynamic processing and security policies by using Mule ESB.
Developed Spring boot application with microservice and deployed it into AWS using EC2 instances.
Developed stored procedures, triggers, and functions with PL/SQL for Oracle database.
Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.
Design PL/SQL batches using Core JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.
Test API responses for WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate Green Box and MongoDB data.
Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework and used JIRA for tracking bugs.
Developed and executed SQL queries for testing database integrity and for data analysis using Selenium.
Developed automated regression test cases in Selenium WebDriver using Java programming language.
Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports and JENKINS for continuous integration.
Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications.
Environment: Java, J2EE, SPRING, Hibernate, Struts, WebLogic, Restful, JQuery, AJAX, Ext JS, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Microservice, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JIRA, Angular, GWT, JDBC, AWS, MongoDB, NodeJS, Adobe (CQ5), Bootstrap, Core Java, jBPM, NoSQL, UML, Eclipse, Junit, Maven, Agile, SOA, JIRA, JENKINS, Selenium.
D. E. SHAW INDIA, Hyderabad, Telangana, India                                                      	August 2009 to December 2011
Role: Java Developer
Description: The objective of this project is to implement a web based front end system which can be used by the employees, managers and higher level management having specific role permissions for effective processing of day to day business activities in the company like leave management, project management and resource management etc.
Responsibilities:
Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.
Designed the user interfaces using JSPs, developed custom tags, and used JSTL Tag lib.
Developed various java business classes for handling different functions.
Developed controller classes using Struts and tiles API.
Involved in Documentation and Use case design using UML modeling include development of Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, and Use case Transaction diagrams.
Participated in design and code reviews
Developed User Interface using AJAX in JSP and also performed client-side validation
Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules. Used SVN as version control
Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts 1.x, JNDI, DB2, HTML, XML, DOM, SAX, ANT, AJAX, Rational Rose, Eclipse Indigo 3.5, SOAP, Apache Tomcat, Oracle 10g, LOG4J, SVN.