Mahesh
Sr. Full Stack java Developer
Email Id: mahe2050.mk@gmail.com                                                                              Phone No: 201-743-9432
Professional Summary:
Over 8+ years of experience in Software Development areas such as Analysis, Design, Implementation and quality assurance Testing of web based and client/server applications using Java/J2EE technologies.
Experienced in Software Technology – Core Java, J2EE Technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, HTML, XML, XSLT, AJAX, Jakarta Ant, JavaScript, REST and SOAP based Web services and Multi - Threading concepts.
I have expertise in core java JSP servlets programming and J2EE technologies like spring 2.5 and hibernate 3.0.
Strong expertise in development and deployment of web components that include Servlets 2.2/2.3/2.4, JSP 1.1/1.2/2.0 and business layer components that include Web Services, RMI, and JDBC 2.0/3.0.
Expert in HTML5/CSS3 development and have experience in Angular js2, Node.js, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, Responsive design.
Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like bootstrap, Require.js, Node.js, and Angular js2, React js.
Strong experience with various application development IDEs: Eclipse, IBM RAD, JBuilder, NetBeans.
In-depth knowledge and experience of analysis and design methodologies using OOAD, UML and J2EE Design Patterns (MVC, Front Controller, Session Façade, Data Access Object), with solid experience in MVC architecture (n-tier).
Experience in Java, J2EE, JEE technologies such as JSP, Servlets, Portlets, JSF, EJB, JMS, ESB, MQ, JTA, AMS, JDBC, and JSTL.
Good knowledge on Spring Batch.
Experience with XML, XSD, DTD, SAX, DOM technologies.
Knowledge on service oriented architecture (SOA), workflows and web services using XML, SOAP, and WSDL.
Knowledge of multi-vendor operating systems including Linux, Windows and Unix Shell Script.
Experience with Continuous Integration/ Continuous Delivery (CI/CD)
Experience with deploying, configuring, and maintaining nationwide Citrix, Microsoft, VMware, AWS Environments
Created XML Schema, XML template and XSL. Developed Web Services Application using SOAP and WS-Security
Developed and maintained elaborate services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM.
Deployed components on JBoss and Web Sphere application server. Designed banking web application by implementing the Struts 2.0 for Model View Controller (MVC) pattern.
Strong experience with test automation tools and frameworks such as Cucumber, Ruby, Selenium, etc.,
Unit testing experience with Jasmine, Karma, Jasmine-Node and Protractor.
Specialized in front end rich application development using ExtJS, AngularJS2 and JQuery and also back end technologies such as Node.js, Java and Microsoft SQL Server.
Have extensive hands-on Maven, Tortoise SVN, test, Easymock, Mockito, PMD, FindBugs, and Cobertura Checkstyle. Hands on experience on Jenkins, Hudson.
Good experience with Cassandra NoSQL Database. Cassandra implementation using Datastax Java API, Hector API.
Experience in working Waterfall, Agile and TDD, ATDD environments with good hands on JUnit, JTest, Easy Mock, Mockito, and Spring Webflow Tests.
Possesses strong interpersonal skills, the ability to interact with people at all levels, and strong communication and presentation skills.
Education: Bachelor’s in Computers, India
Technical Skills:
Professional experience:
Client: Capital One,  NYC, NY              				                                         Feb 2017 -Till date
Role: Sr. Full Stack Java Developer
Description: The Capital One Loan Origination System (CLO) deals with the underwriting and funding processes for auto loans. The loan application undergo the 'submission', 'decision', 'underwriting' and 'funding' stages before finally getting imported into the servicing system.
Roles & Responsibilities:
Participated in Agile Development Team, and having daily SCRUM meeting for progress reporting as well as task distributing.
Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.
Used Backbone.js and ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.
Good knowledge in Developed Java API to connect with AWS S3 Services for storing and retrieving data stored in the S3 buckets.
Involved in Core Java coding by using Java APIs such as Collections, Multithreading, Exception Handling, Generics, Enumeration, and Java I/O to fulfill the implementation of business logic.
Configured the xml files for Open Source Spring 3 Framework to fulfill the Proxy Pattern.
Configured the xml files for Hibernate 3 and applied its Object Relational Mapping ORM to enable the data transactions between POJO and Oracle Database using caching on Session Factory as well as caching on query.
Configured the xml files for Spring Security injection to ensure the back-end security by discriminating the role of users as well as access authority for the URIs and Server-side assets.
Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring based application with very less configuration.
Configured the xml files for Java Mail technology in User Account Activation Service and Password Reset Service.
Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.
Experience in AWS using EC2, Dynamo DB, RDS, S3, VPC and IAM services.
Configured the web.xml file for REST server injection to enable the REST web services by using JAXB API.
Responsible for designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap to build this SPA Single Page Application.
Customized CSS files by adding new CSS3 features like media queries to ensure fluid/ responsive design for our web pages.
Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and ReactJS.
Maintained existing UI Applications and upgraded them using CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, React JS, Backbone. Js, JSON and HTML5.
Extensively involved in coding with AngularJS, jQuery UI and jQuery Mobile to add functionalities and effects like Accordion, Infinite Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar.
Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable
Configured AWS IAM and Security Group in Public and Private Subnets in VPC.
Involved in application development using MEAN stack (Mongo DB, Express.JS, AngularJS)
Nested as well as Multiple Views are created using AngularJS 2.0 typescript UI-View & UI-serf.
Developed reusable ExtJS components Such as Viewport, Panel, and Grids etc.
Used Ext JS 3.x and Java and spring together.
Involved in defensive coding against SQL injection, XSS, Phishing by adding extensive validation code for all user inputs by writing JavaScript Regex Regular Expression for email validation and credit card number validation, jQuery code combined with AngularJS ng-pristine/dirty for input validations.
Developed JavaScript code to feed data-tables of Google Charts API with data, then draw charts with animation effect.
Working in Deployment area, using Dockers Tool for deployment by creating Docker Containers and Docker Images and pushing it to Docker HUB.
Involved in Test Driven Development by writing JUnit test case in the coding part of Java methods like mortgage calculating.
Environment: JDK 1.6, J2EE, Node.JS, Spring 3.0, AWS, Spring boot 1.1.5, Hibernate 3.2, Hibernate Annotation, Oracle 10g, Spring Security, REST, Web Service, JSP, JUnit, JSTL, JPA, Servlet, Java Mail, HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile, Angular.JS2, EXT JS, Express.JS, Typescript, ES7/ES6, Ajax, Docker, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, Tomcat, JBoss, log4J, Subversion SVN, JIRA, SCRUM, My Eclipse/Eclipse
Client: AXA Financials, New York City, NY				                        Nov 2015 - Jan 2017
Role: Sr. Full Stack Java Developer
Description: Order management project provides the functionality to test the status/feasibility of user requested services by interacting with other downstream systems like inventory, activation and billing. During the tenure of the project, supported existing internet based applications and developed majority of them using Angular Java Scripts. The webpages are designed for custom applications to populate database tables using online e-forms.
Roles & Responsibilities:
Involved in Analysis, Design, and Implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, XML and XSLT, React JS and Web Services (REST)
Developed Microservices using Spring boot and persistent layer using Hibernate
Implemented Agile Methodology as part of project requirement changes.
Implemented J2EE design patterns like Singleton and Session Façade.
Developed Façade classes to encapsulate the business logic and hide the implementation details of the data access classes and EJBs.
Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.
Developed user interface by using Flux for SPA (Single Page Application) development.
Involved in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.
Designed and Developed UI for Portfolio Review Dashboard application using Angular.JS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, LESS, JavaScript and J Query.
Used Angular JS and NODE JS to structure JavaScript code in an MVC (Model, View, and Controller)
Utilized Angular.JS framework to bind HTML5 template (views) to JavaScript object (models).
Created Custom Directives in Angular.JS, making use of Modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement.
Used Angular JS framework where data from backend is stored in model and populated it to UI and also used DOJO for JavaScript.
Data Operations were performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.
Implemented all the components of Spring Frame work (Controller classes, Spring Bean Configuration file (dispatcher-servlet.xml).
Involved java multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction and developed a batch process framework.
Developed User Interface having animations and effects using JSF, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS3 and HTML5.
Developed reusable Ext JS components such as Viewport, Panel, and Grids etc.
Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performed configuration of Struts Application Framework.
Used JSF framework with AJAX in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components, RIA components, Validator, Events and Listeners.
Implemented RESTful services with JAX-RS using Spring Boot and Micro Services Architecture
Implemented the Struts frame work with MVC architecture.
Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro Services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.
Developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML and client side validations using JavaScript.
Developed middle-tier application with J2EE using Servlet, EJB, Java Beans and Web Services Standards (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI).
Developed and maintained automated test scripts to support regression testing and participated actively in system testing and regression testing in UFT.
Created XML Schema, XML template and used XML SAX/DOM API to parse them.
Involved in coding, code reviews, Junit testing, Prepared and executed Unit Test Cases.
Developed classes to interface with underlying web services layer and scaled the component interactions and generalized the interfaces using RESTFUL.
Used Log4j for External Configuration Files and debugging.
Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 11g database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.
Coordinated with offshore development team and clarified their day-today questions. Reviewed offshore delivery before check-in the code into SVN.
Wrote and debugged the ANT Scripts for building the entire web application’s
Environment: Java, Servlets, Spring, JAXB, IBM MQ Series, Micro Services, XML, React JS, JavaScript, JQuery, Node JS, AJAX, Angular JS, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, Multithreading, Eclipse, REST, Adobe flex Junit, EXT JS, UNIX, Hibernate, Oracle11g, Agile Methodologies, Selenium.
Client: ASD Health Care, Frisco, TX						    June 2014 - Oct 2015
Role: Full Stack Java Developer
Description: This project is a comprehensive and integrated Hospital Management System for a Super Specialty Hospital. This package is used to computerize the activities of a servicing system. This package contains four modules. They are Administration, Patient Care System, Health Services and Auxiliary Services. Each module is having sub modules within this sub module will maintains storing, registering, details of joining patient details, and overall day activities maintains one particular database.
Roles & Responsibilities:
Developed the system using Java, Spring 4.0.5, Spring Boot, Hibernate 4.3, Angular-JS, react js, expressjs, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular-UI etc...
Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using Angular-JS, Ajax, Bootstrap, Java Script and HTML.
Implemented Reporting SPAs using Angular-JS, Angular Directives, Bootstrap, CSS3, LESS, Glyphicons and Gulp.
Performed usability testing for the client’s webpages with use of STLC.
Developed an AngularJS workflow manager leveraging Angular-UI's state router for flexible configuration and management of multi-step user input flows.
Involved in creating Angular controllers, services, filters and configured Routing using Angular UI router.
Created popup forms using Bootstrap Modals, AngularJS Models and AngularJS Controllers
Created Multiple Views as well as Nested Views with the help of AngularJs ui-view & ui-sref.
Created restful API using expressjs to handle security, authentication and authorization.
Experience in Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS, created Multiple & Nested Views, Routing, Controllers, Services and Custom Directives, Node.js, Bower, Grunt.
Used Spring MVC framework to develop the application.
Used ExpressJs server allows to serve HTML, JavaScript and API.
Developed service infrastructure components in Angular2/Typescript for a unified web UI initiative
Developed REST services using Spring Boot, Spring REST and involved in creating REST controllers, Controller advices etc.
Implemented Spring MVC Controller module for better handling of client request, consume Restful data service and sending response back to client.
Developed Spring AOP aspects for logging and exception handling and involved in integrating spring with Hibernate.
Performed ORM mappings with Hibernate and implemented spring transaction management in the application.
Developed Batch jobs using Spring Batch and scheduled the jobs using spring scheduling.
Focused on the middle-level development of the client application for creating automated reports from the UI.
Consumed SOAP web services and RESTful JSON web services to create the automated report
Wrote Jasmine unit tests to test Angular.js Developed unit test cases and functional test cases using JUnit.
Guided all the API users on how to make use of the methods and also validated the whole system using Java.
Involved in setting up Test automation and developed cucumber feature files and used Selenium for automated testing with Testing.
Environment: Agile, Java/J2EE, Spring 4x, Spring Boot, hibernate 4.3, Spring AOP, Spring REST, Spring mvc, JMS, JBoss EAP 6.x, Angular JS, MongoDB, Oracle 11g, XML, DOZER mapping, Typescript, SAX, DOM, JAXB, WSDL, SOAP, REST, Java Script, Bootstrap, SASS, JQuery, expressjs, react js, Gradle, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, Gradle, RESTful, AWS, SOAP UI, Rational Quality Manager.
Client: WellPoint, Woodland Hills, CA						   Nov 2012 - May2014
Role: Java/J2EE Developer
Description: The  system  provides  Online  access  to  Members,  Employers  and  Brokers regarding Patient Administration, Billing and Pharmacy Management  functions for the hospital. The major functions are Member registration and Medical Record information, Pharmacy Information, Appointments, and Handling Hospital
Admissions,  and  Assigning  Insurance  Details   for   Billing,   Recording Transfers  within  the  hospital  and  Creation  of  Discharge  Summary  and Details. The system is developed using J2EE Technologies with Spring Frame Work and Hibernate Technologies.
Roles & Responsibilities:
Interacted with business analysts and end users in gathering requirements and understand the business processes involved.
Followed Agile Methodology like Scrum Meetings, to deliver application in iterative approach with high Quality software and satisfy customer needs.
Followed writing JUnit for the classes in order to unit test the code.
Coded  presentation  layer  components   comprising   of   JSP,   Spring Controllers, Spring and JSTL Tags
Used Spring MVC Framework for the development of the  project
Developed Spring Configuration files to wire the  Java  Components  using Spring Dependency module
Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework.
Developed and Consumed Enterprise  wide  web   services  using  SOAP  and RESTFUL web services (Using AXIS and Jersey frameworks)
Implemented J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, and Data Access Object.
Configuration of JDBC resources, JNDI names Deployment of application on Weblogic Application Server.
Developed various Reports using JReport tool and integrate with WMS to cater to business user's daily needs.
Implemented Spring MVC Framework which involves configuring Dispatcher servlet, mapping requests to controllers.
Designed and developed UI having complex screens functionalities using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML and CSS.
Integrated application with other systems using REST Web services.
Responsible for Code merge activities and Continuous Integration.
Performed Integration tests for Web services deployed in the server.
Performed complete application life cycle functions from conception to final release to users including   Design/Analysis,   Implementation, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance.
Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, Spring,  Hibernate,  Web Services, SOAP, RESTFUL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS,  JSON,  XML,  AJAX,  jQuery, ANT,  Maven, Continuous Integration,  Jenkin,  SVN,  Log4j,  JUnit,  PL/SQL, Tomcat Server, TOAD
Client: Andhra Bank, Hyderabad, India						       Dec2011 - Sep2012
Role: Java Developer
Description: This is a financial product which is a suite of enterprise software applications that seamlessly interface with your existing back-office financial systems, to proactively manage the internal and external financial flows of your business, and achieve extremely effective working capital management. Our solutions facilitate intra and inter-business connectively to accelerate positive cash flows and increase liquidity in digital market places.
Roles & Responsibilities:
Worked with Agile development Methodology with a Test Driven approach.
In case of application development to be loaded, modular approach was used.
Depending on the business requirements, Class and Sequence diagrams were developed.
Developed UML diagrams for analyzing the business requirements and designing the system.
Was a part of every phase in the SDLC
Worked on developing JSP’s, Action Classes and delegating the tasks to the corresponding session parameters.
Involved in Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design and Development of the project.
Developed services using Servlets, JSP’s, and Java Beans.
Hibernate was the ORM tool used to relate the objects to the database.
Annotations in Hibernate were extensively used.
Worked on designing screens using Swing and Ajax.
Most parts of the code developed were integrated using the Struts and Spring Framework.
Involved in developing Hibernate mapping definitions for the required persistent layer.
Implemented validations for both client side and Server side using the Struts2 Validator Framework.
MVC design pattern and TDD was used in the application in order to make it more modular.
Was responsible in generating Maven Script was faster and easier deployment.
Configurations and Deployment was implemented using the IBM WebSphere Application using Maven Script.
Deployed Web Services, JSP’s, Servlets, and Server side components in Web Logic Application Server.
Worked on running integrated testing using the JUNIT and XML for building the data structures required for the Web Service.
Environment: Core Java (J2SE-Multithreading,IO), UML(Rational Rose), Web logic Server, Tomcat, Struts2, Spring, Maven, Junit, CVS, Log4j, EJB 2.0, XML, Oracle 10g, Stored Procedures, Eclipse, WebSphere v6
Client: Sahastra Solutions Inc, Hyderabad, India			                        Sep2010- Nov2011
Role: Jr. Programmer Analyst
Description: Sahastra has various clients for developing E-commerce websites as per their requirements. And serve their customers with vast inventory, experienced and qualified staff, and quality products at all. This is B2B and B2C website build using JS/Magento and MySQL as backend.
Roles & Responsibilities:
Actively involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).
Actively participated in requirements gathering, analysis, design, and testing phases and also designed use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams as a part of Design Phase.
Involved in the design of the Database and in the Normalization of the tables and worked with NoSQL databases.
Configured struts-specific deployment descriptor (struts.xml), Implemented the validations using Struts MVC Framework and also Created Action Classes for Controller in Struts MVC Framework. Developed the code based on the design using Struts framework and using J2EE patterns.
Struts Tag Libraries and Struts Tiles Framework were used in addition to JSP, HTML, AJAX and CSS in developing the presentation layer.
Extensively used the struts application resources properties file for error codes, views labels and for Product Internationalization.
Used Spring MVC framework to build the web modules for partner systems integration. Spring Batch to process large data for Distribution center2 allocations implementation.
Developing Java Web Services for different phases. Used Struts2 framework to handle application requests using SOAP web services. Implemented the data persistence using Hibernate.
Implemented JDBC API for communicating with database layer.
Responsible for installing JBoss, administering and support of staging, QA and Production environment and performed failover test. Deployed application in JBoss on UNIX.
Coding using core java, Servlets and JSP using Eclipse IDE. Developed Request Handlers using Servlets as Controlling mechanism.
Code Developed for User and Administrator Modules. Assisted in the documentation of system test strategies and the execution of test cases.
Involved in Prototype Development. Performed Unit testing using JUnit.
Environment: HTML, Java, Struts, Struts MVC, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, SOAP, Hibernate, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JBoss, SQL, PL/SQL, PHP, Ant and Eclipse.