dayakar@americanitsolutionsinc.net
904-344-1035
Summary:
Over 9 years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) with nice blend of expertise and leadership, be it requirements gathering, analysis (OOA), prototyping, design (OOD), development (OOP) or maintenance and testing of client-server applications.
Good experience in developing applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Servlets, JSP's, SOAP and REST Web Services, JSTL, Spring libraries, Struts, JDK 1.7, Java Beans, Applets, JDBC, XML, HTML, Java Scripting, MYSQL, RDBMS, Prime faces, ORM tools like Hibernate, HQL, Apache-Tomcat, JBoss, Oracle Web Logic Server, Glassfish Application Server.
Strong experience in designing and developing component based reusable GUI based applications.
Expertise in Java technologies like Core Java, J2EE, Java Script, Servlets. Expertise in Curam Framework.
Hands on experience in Curam Framework.
Expertise in front-end/presentation tier development using Struts 1.2 frameworks with Struts Tiles, StrutsValidator, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JSTL, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML and CSS.
Experience with Messaging Queue Technologies such as JMS and Rabbit MQ
Experience in writing the UNIX and Linux shell scripts in order to execute the jobs.
Experience in web application design using open source Spring, JSF& Struts Frameworks and 
Java & J2EE Design Patterns.
Strong Experience in Oracle and backend programming. Good experience in SQL, PLSQL. Normalization, creation of stored procedures and function.
Experience in implementing open source frameworks like Struts, Spring MVC, Spring Web flow 2.0, Hibernate, iBatis ORM (Object relational Mapping) and AJAX.
Highly proficient in developing n-tier Enterprise application with J2EEdesign patterns like MVC, Business Delegate, Session Façade, DTO, DAO, Front Controller, Factory and Singleton
Solid experience in lightweight POJO based frameworks like Spring 2.5 (Dependency Injection, IOC, Remoting, ORM, DAO, AOP, JMS and Business Integration).
Extensively worked on Java, JSP, Servlets, Swings, MVC Architecture (Struts and Spring), Spring, Spring Web flow 2.0 Hibernate, EJB, JMS, AJAX, JSF, Web services, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap JS, DHTML, JSTL, CSS, and Custom Tag Libraries to develop JSPs.
Good Knowledge on JavaScript libraries which include Angular JS versions (1.0,2.0), React JS, Node js, backbone.js and GWT.
Analyzed and built Administration module for an website.
Experience in developing B2B website using IBM WebSphere E-Commerce.
Hands on experience using IDEs like Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD), Web Sphere Studio Application Developer 5.0Rational Software Architect (RSA).
Extensively worked on relational databases like Sybase, DB2, MS SQL Server, Oracle 9i and MySQL.
Strong in object oriented design/analysis, UML modeling, classic design patterns and J2EE patterns.
Designing and implementing scalable, RESTful and micro services-based back-end. The back-end is being written in Java using spring boot for simplicity and scalability.
Developed RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and accounts.
End to end application design and development using RESTful APIs, Micro-services, Spring boot, Spring Cloud, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3.0 and JQuery.
Proficiency in using Amazon Web Services API's, advanced AWS Services and worked on AWS compute services such as Elastic Computer Cloud (EC2), Rational Database Service (RDS), Lambda
Subversion SVN, CVS, GIT and Visual Source Safe as versioning software tools.
Experience in developing applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.
Highly experience with Java complaint IDE's like STS, Eclipse, IntelliJ and RAD.
Technical skills:
Languages			: Java, J2EE, C and C++, HTML, XML, JSPs, CSS, JSPs, Oracle
PL/SQL
Java Technologies			: Core Java and Multithreading.
J2EE Technologies			: Spring and Hibernate
Web Server Technologies		: J2EE, JAX-WS, RESTful (JAX-RS) Web Services
App Servers				: IBM WebSphere Application server 8.5, Tomcat 5/6
Open Source				: Ant, log4J, Maven, SQL, Junit, Jasmine, Karma
RDBMS (Database)			:Oracle9i/10g/11g, SQL Server, My Sql
Version Controls			: SVN, CVS, GIT
Operating Systems			: Windows XP/Vista/7, UNIX, Linux
Tools and IDEs				: IntelliJ, Clion, Brackets, SQL Developer, Eclipse and STS,
Putty, Jenkins, Splunk, HP ALM QC 11.0
User interface tools			: Angular JS, Node JS, Jasmine, Karma, Ext JS
Methodologies/Design Patterns 	: OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Facade,
Singleton, Rational Unified Process (RUP), Test Driven
Methodology
Frameworks/API’s			: Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Log 4j, REST, AJAX, JUnit
Professional Experience:
Con Edison, New York City, NY                                                                                        Nov 2016 to Till Date
Senior Java/J2EE Developer
Description: Consolidated Edison, Inc., commonly known as Con Edison or Con Ed, is one of the largest investor-owned energy companies in the United States, with approximately $13 billion in annual revenues as of 2016, and over $47 billion in assets. The company provides a wide range of energy-related products and services to its customers.
Responsibilities:
Used Agile Methodology for developing project.
Worked on Core Java. Implemented Alphanumeric functionality for bond number in Surety application. Implemented Junit using mockito framework.
Working with Business Analysts and project managers to develop multiple projects in parallel.
Developed GUI layer using Java Script frameworks like JQuery, Angular JS, Node JS and other frameworks based on the project need.
Working with HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript for mark up and applying styles for the project.
Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring MVC, Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.
Develop extensions or configurations within the Curam Framework.
Worked on deploying applications on Apache Tomcat, Node JS.
Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring
Used Boot Strap Framework for responsive design of the applications.
Worked on Angular JS single page web application for legal application monitoring for service consumers.
Designed and developed web interfaces and business logic using Jakarta Struts Framework (MVC architecture), JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JDBC, AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML and XML Technologies.
Angular JS was used as the framework to develop SPA applications.
Developed custom angular routes for application based on the user navigation to load pages.
Used frameworks like Karma and Jasmine for implementing TDD and BDD in our projects.
Spring framework was used as the controller lawyer in back end to take care of the requests in the application.
Used JSF, HTML5, CSS3, React JS, Angular JS, jQuery and Bootstrap to build this SPA Single Page application.
Inject the Curam factory classes into the Spring context handlers
Convert the Curam  persistence layer to Hibernate Database calls.
Involved in creating Front end screens using JSF, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node JS,Sencha 4,5, React JS, Bootstrap, Angular JS UI-Router,GWT (Google Web Toolkit) Grunt, & Gulp and parsed data from XML.
Used React JS to develop responsive application specified by conditions.
Jenkins was used as the Continuous Integration and Built tool to deploy applications.
Worked on FORTIFY tool to see security breaches at code level and worked on fixing it.
Development of complete End to End testing plan and strategy for PFS application.
Performance analysis was performed on web sphere server in the development environment.
Worked on creating workspaces for development teams in IBM RAD.
Worked with Defect management installation setup on JIRA and integration of JIRA with Jenkins and Virtualization support for various internal teams for effective Analysis on release and framework issues.
Worked on Oracle 11g, stored procedure from calls made from DAO and removed SQL injections as part of security breach avoidance techniques.
Worked on Junit and mockito framework for PFS application.
Worked on Monitoring Web activity for NAM, CM activities of applications.
Environment: Java 1.8, Maven 3, Jenkins, DynaTrace, IBM RAD, JIRA, JQUERY, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, Oracle 11g, Angular JS, PL/ SQLHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Hibernate, EJB,  JQuery, JSP, Servlet, MySQL, eclipse, ANT, Curam, CVS, Waterfall Model. JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JDBC, AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML and XML
Client:CVS Health, Woonsocket, RI						Oct 2014 to Oct 2016
Java/J2EE Developer
CVS Health is a leading pharmacy and retail chain based in Woonsocket, RI. The project that I was involved in gathering requirements and the development of PCPS Patient centric Prescription solution. The intent of this system is to show the dose calendar on the prescription Label and various application channels .The project was implemented on both core and target acquired stores.
Responsibilities:
Adapted Agile Methodology from specification, Analysis, Design, System integration, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance.
Involved in requirements gathering, analysis, design and testing.
Used Hibernate JPA in data access layer to access and update information in the database.
Implemented the Persistence Layer needed for the services using JPA.
Developed user interface using JavaScript, React JS, Node JS, HTML,GWT(google Web Toolkit), CSS.
Design and development of the Alliance application using Spring MVC and Hibernate.
Worked on spring dependency injection, declarative transactions, AOP.
Used different Spring annotations like @autowire, @controller, @component, @Service at different layers. Created MongoDB collections and integrated with spring and MongoDB.
Developed the custom tags for frequently used tags in project.
Coded and developed EJB Components, both Session Beans and Message Driven Beans, modeling the business logic based on applications specified coding standards.
Followed Agile Scrum methodology, Test-driven development (TDD) and Continuous integration and Pair Programming.
Designed AWS infrastructure
Launch, configure and maintain VPC, Subnet, Internal Gateway etc. to manage AWS Network
Launch various AWS EC 2 instance to deploy various application.
Successfully accomplished the complex installation of a site-to-site Open VPN between AWS and the
Created spring boot application by using maven.
Implemented batch configuration in spring boot application.
Custom Node JS proxy used to simulate API responses before the client implementation was complete and to proxy requests to finished client APIs, handling authentication custom headers virtual application root.
Build REST web service by building Node JS Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls and used JQuery for dynamic functionality of HTML5 and Translated wireframes into optimized program code using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery, Ajax and DHTML
Involved in working with Hibernate as the ORM tool for data persistence. Used mappingfiles (hbm.xml) for the persistence classes.
Used ANT as a build tool build script. Log4J for logging errors and messages.
Involved in unit testing using JUnit, coverage using clover plug in.
Developed several Spring /Servlets /JSP for MVC tiers to accomplish a variety of functionalities described above with respect to MVC design pattern, Command design pattern etc.
Used Java script, JQuery, JSTL and CSS for developing the JSP’S.
Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.
Developed many rich, highly interactive responsive web sites and UI components with JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3.
Used TOAD to get connected to Oracle to access the backend Oracle Database for verifying and validating the data inserted.
Used Spring 3.0 Framework for Dependency Injection, and integrated with the Hibernate framework.
Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, EJB, Hibernate 3.2, JSP, RAD, Junit, Oracle 10g, Rational Rose Enterprise Edition 2000, TOAD, Windows, WebSphere, HTML 5, Ajax, JavaScript, Rest, JQuery
Infinity Info Systems, New York, NY                                                                                    Oct 2013 to Apr 2014
Java/J2EE Developer
Description: Infinity Info Systems Corp. develops and delivers customer relationship management (CRM), business intelligence, and mobile CRM solutions for sales and marketing professionals. It offers CRM solutions for sales and marketing automation, business analysis, front and back office integration, mobile CRM, and more. 
 
Responsibilities:
Designed and developed Web site and Web based application and database for clients.
Involved in SDLC analysis, design and development and testing phases of the application development using Scrum Agile methodology.
Part of Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile Scrum meetings.
Involving in consuming, producing SOAP based web services using JAX-WS and tested the web services with SOAPUI.
Implementing Maven and Jenkins used for the automatic build process.
Expertise on working with the JavaScript, prototype JS and various MVC JavaScript frameworks node.js.
Using SpringORM module for integration with Hibernate for persistence layer.
Using SpringAOP in exception handling, which it reduces the development time to handle the exceptions.
Developing screens using Angularjs, Dojo, CSS3 and Html5 and Designed Dojo widgets and reusable modules with Dojo.
Working closely with Software Developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.
Able to create complex JIRA workflows including project workflows, screen schemes, permission scheme and notification schemes in JIRA.
Logged, tested and tracked issues and defects to closure and resolution in JIRA in partnership with Development Team.
Worked on JavaScript frame work (AngularJS, Backbone, Bootstrap) to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.
Used javascript framework such as Angular JS (for data driven apps) and Backbonejs (for heavy DOM Manipulation).
Used Backbone JS to optimize in-browser use and to load the module and to improve the Speed.
Built Rich Prototypes and Applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap with MySQL database.
Upgraded Apache and Tomcat in NPE servers to latest version, configured and tested successfully.
Upgraded Apache and Tomcat in Production servers to latest version, configured and tested successfully.
Using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3 all HTML and DHTML is accomplished through AngularJS directives.
Used AngularJS for DOM Manipulation, Filters, and Directives.
Provided support on DB2 client related applications.
• Worked with databases SQL (DB2) to validate, filter, and updating data from clients.
Designed and implemented web module using Spring MVC.
Involved in creating UI using GWT, have used UIBinder framework along MVP pattern.
Involved in creating custom widgets would be rendered on top of GWT.
Involved in creating http inbound & outbound flows, Orchestrations, Transformations using MULE ESB.
Used MULE ESB to do the traffic routing between multiple systems and mapping of the data.
Developed a REST web service API's using Mule services, implementing Spring MVC, and JDBC modules.
Creating, Debugging and testing web applications using web services using RESTful, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX and SQL.
Implemented RESTful web service using JAX-RS API.
Used Mule ESB for application integration and deployed mule applications
Developed server side utilities using J2EE technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC.
Maven and Jenkins used for the automatic build process.
Developed various Oracle PL/SQL programming with stored procedures, packages, functions, triggers and other advance technologies.
Unit and integration test cases are being designed and developed using JUnit and JMockit.
Used Spring Tool Suite (STS) as IDE for development and deployed application on Web logic.
Implemented the Model-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern using Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition.
Used Rich Faces in an advanced UI component framework for easily integrating Ajax capabilities into business applications using JSF.
Set up ActiveMQ for asynchronous communication and implemented the messaging modules using Apache Camel API.
Used ActiveMQ to communicate 2 Systems To and Fro Communication where Asynchronous Message Communication was required.
Implemented JSF MVC framework to make separate behavior and presentation in application.
Developed few pages with HTML5, AngularJS and CSS3.
Creation Managed bean used to instantiate backing beans used in a JSF application and stores them in a Scope.
Environment Java, J2EE,Spring 3,Spring Batch, Web Services (JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL), JSP, ActiveMQ Java Script, AJAX, Angular.js, node.js, Backbone.js, Jquery, Dojo, SOAP, RESTful WebServices, SVN, Google Web Toolkit(GWT), Spring Tool Suite(STS), Maven, Log4j, JUnit 4, HTML5.0, CSS, AJAX,PL/SQL.
C-Cubed Solutions, Bangalore, India                                         Oct 2011 to Sep 2013
Koss Dispo Sheet
JAVA Developer
Description: The Koss Dispo Sheet, Application Kbase and Knowledge Base are the tools designed to be operated by the call center agents who receives calls. Based on the customer code, which is unique, the agent can track the history of the customer and can assist him with his/her issues. The tool provides the facility of storing back the information into the database such as customer id, product name, issue, solution provided, address etc., for features assistance.
Responsibilities:
Analyzed Business Requirements for the design and development of the tool.
Product coding/Implementation for prototype.
Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.
Developed ANT scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server.
Used Hibernate to populate the data from the Database.
Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.
Developed the application using Spring MVC.
Involved in front end server side coding using JavaScript/HTML/CSS and Java, JSP, Beans, EJBs.
Developed JSPs, JavaBeans and Servlets.
Created images/icons for web pages using Photoshop.
Interaction with the clients for modifications after UAT.
Data validation and documentation for future changes.
Implemented design patterns like MVC, Singleton.
Designed and Developed HTML pages and JSP pages.
Configured controllers using Struts Framework.
Server side validations in the UI are achieved using Struts Validation.
Achieved database persistence through hibernate.
Developed and debugging of java files is done using Eclipse IDE.
Performed unit testing using JUnit.
Environment: HTML/CSS, Java, JSP, Servlets, XML, XSL, Struts, Dreamweaver, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat 4.1, Oracle 7.0, Eclipse, Windows NT, Junit,UAT.
Udyog Software, Hyderabad, India                                                                                     Aug 2008 to Sep 2011
Java Developer
Description: Udyog software is a pioneer in providing tax automation products, solutions for both direct and indirect taxes. The application developed offers various computation & filing services for account payable, account receivable and payroll transactions and is a preferred tax solution partner for various ERP vendors and implementers.
Responsibilities:
Developed the application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlets and JDBC.
Used JavaScript for client-side validations.
Involved in Documentation and use case design using UML modeling include development of Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and use case Transaction diagrams.
Developed activity, sequence and class diagrams using Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Rational Rose.
Used JDBC to connect to the My SQL database and written complex SQL queries to retrieve data from the database.
Deployed the application in Apache Tomcat Server.
Used JUnit to perform unit testing.
Client side validations are handled using Java Script.
Used Eclipse tool for application development.
Used Configuration Management Tools for version control which is built on CVS.
Participated in design and code review meetings with developers.
Used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components, Validator, Events and Listeners.
Created UI designs using Web 2.0 standards Created UI designs using Web  2.0 standards
Developed the UI layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matched requirements.
Using JavaScript and JQuery to improve overall design and UI of campaign websites.
Actively involved and designed the user interfaces using JSPs, CSS, and Javascript.
Used JAXB API to bind XML Schema to Java classes.
Delivered presentations about cloud computing, NoSQL, and new developments in databases.
Used Spring-Core module for Dependency Injection and integrated view using Apace Tiles.
Consumed Web services with Apache CXF Framework.
Created a build environment for Java using Jenkins, Git, Maven and Artifactory.
Involved in writing test cases for all the Java classes developed using Easymock and Junit framework.
Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Servlets, JDBC, My SQL, UML, SQL, JUnit, Eclipse, Maven, CVS and Apache Tomcat Server.
Education:  Bachelor’s in Computer Science from OU, India