VEMA REDDY
SR. JAVA DEVELOPER
PH#: (865)375-0056
E-mail: vemareddy993@gmail.com
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
8+ years of IT experience various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirement analysis, design, development, testing and implementation using AGILE methodology.
Extensive experience with advanced J2EE Frameworks such as spring, Struts, JSF and Hibernate.
Expertise in implementing and deploying SOAP Web Services and Restful Services, WSDL to develop dynamic server side web contents.
Thorough knowledge in developing applications using Core Java concepts like OOP, JAVASWING, JDBC, JMS, Multithreading, Junit and advanced java concepts like Web Services, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JavaMail, Log4j, ANT, XML, XSLT, RMI.
Worked with core java and Drool rule engine and participated in all aspects of software life cycle including analysis, design, development, production deployment and support .
Experience in Lucene/Apache Solr to index the processed data to make use of Solr search capabilities.
Unit testing. Strong problem analysis and resolution skills. Highly motivated team player with zeal to learn new technologies and always believes in giving the best of efforts in Extensively used the J2EE design patterns like Session Façade, Business Object (BO), Service Locator, Data Transfer Object (DTO) and Data Access Object (DAO), Singleton, Factory Method.
Workflow tools included: ReactJS, Redux, Flux, Axios, NodeJS, REST API, HTML, CSS, JavaScript(ES6), Webpack, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, Postman, Docker and Github.
Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis, Design and Development (OOAD) methodologies.
Implemented the Hibernate framework (ORM) to interact with database.
Expertise in developing GUI based application with Java Applets and Swings.
Experience with developing enterprise applications using IDEs like Rational Application Developer (RAD), WSAD (WebSphere Application Developer), Eclipse.
Proficient experience in using the databases such as MS SQL Server 2005/2008, MySQL, Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2.
Develops new screens using Oracle Forms 11g for application as per requirements.
Created stored procedures and packages in Oracle databases using SQL and PL/SQL, which were called by user-oriented application modules.
Experience in Database Administration using DB2 UDB LUW and with strong business knowledge of Financial, Insurance and Retail projects.
Expertise in creating and installing SSL certificates on Apache, IBM HTTP server, IIS and IBMWebSphere.
Worked through all phases of system development life cycle and has performed as a senior DB2UDB DBA.
Strong experience in Database Design, writing stored procedure, functions, triggers, DDL, DMLSQL queries.
Developed Java applications and tools to automate tests run in UNIX environment.
Strong technical experience in Oracle 8i, 9i, 10g , SQL, PL/SQL,T-SQL, UNIX Shellscripting, MS SQL Server, Informatica .
Created database scheduler scripts and applications using Unix shell scripts, SQL *Plus script.
Expertise in working with Windows, LINUX and UNIX, Shell Scripting, Subversion and CLEARCASE platforms.
Create JBPM, Activiti, and Bonita Proof Of Concepts based on customer use cases.
Design, and deploy JBPM platform for customer in the development environment.
Good knowledge of using PERL on Operating Systems and strong experience on JSON.
Experience Developing application using Groovy, Grails, GSP, GORM and Grails Plugins and   Services.
Worked on the dependency injection using spring framework with Application Context XML file.
Worked on Jersey, Jackson, Multipart dependency frameworks.
Involved in creating and modifying the class diagrams, sequence diagrams using Microsoft Visio.
Participate in the software design, development and package implementation using the Hybris platform.
Generated proper correspondence for Health Benefits such as SNAP, TANF and LiHeap Program
Experience in Importing data from various sources to the Cassandra cluster using Java API’s.
Experience in data modeling of Cassandra.
Experienced in deploying, configuring, maintaining applications on application servers such as Jboss, Web sphere (8.5, 8.0), Web logic, JRUN4, and Tomcat.
Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, Appian, Oracle, AngularJS, Cucumber and/or Selenium WebDriver, LDAP, XML, SQL, Data Modeling, WebLogic Application Servers, SaaS, POC, RDBMS, CSS, POJO and JQuery.
Worked closely with developers to define and configured application Servers, Virtual Hosts, Web Applications, Web resources, Servlets, JDBC drivers and Servlet Engines-as well as deployment of EJBs across multiple instances of Websphere.
Function the UI permissions to allow the qualified users to generate the maintenance reports in PDF and Excel by Jasper Report
Good experience in implementation in version control like Rational Clear case, TFS, CM synergy, CVS.
Hands on exposure to different SDLC models like Waterfall, Agile and undergone the training in software Development Processes like SDLC, Test Driven Development (TDD),ATDD(Automated test Driven Development) and Iterative Methodologies, SCRUM, SDLC, UML, Parallel programming, Extreme Programming and Test-Driven Development.
Built model jar files and rule flow, helped design the large numbers of rules, extracted rules data from the database and decision tables. Invoked rules from Java side. Used Drools Decision Table using excel sheets with a Spring MVC project.
NodeJS is been used for developing I/O intensive web applications like, single-page application.
Had experience in JMS and Message Queue listeners for Message Queue Service.
Experience in client-side development with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.
Hands on experience working with databases like Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL.
Monitor Perl and shell batch processing and Sybase database processes to ensure all systems are ready-for-business at each start-of-day.
Having experience in System Architecture, Detail Design, Data Modeling, and Data Integration using SSIS and Data Publishing through BI tools such as SSRS.
Excellent knowledge in migrating data and databases using side by side migrations with methods like attach detach, SSIS packages as well as copy database tasks.
Experience in working with the Columnar NoSQL Database like HBase, Cassandra to manage extremely large data sets.
Good working knowledge of Cassandra and MongoDB.
Management of the application's deployments (jenkins, shell) SVN.
Written JUnit Test Cases for challenging environments.
Having knowledge on HADOOP like Map Reduce Programming.
Deployed and managed Hadoop cluster using AWS and Elastic Search.
Have created highly fault tolerant, highly scalable Java application using AWS Elastic Load Balancing, Ec2 VPC and S3 as part of process improvements.
Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application.
Visualized network log analysis with graphs and charts using Kibana and Tableau.
Developed an application that generates a count of the similar words using Map Reduce with the USGS earthquake data.
Designed and developed automate creation on of kafka and zookeeper infrastructure.
Experience working across various SFDC implementations covering Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Call center, Chatter & App-exchange applications.
Performed machine learning experiments using an Azure ML studio, which uses K-means clustering and interacted with the Microsoft Azure Cloud.
Interacted with Gordon Super Computer with the python commands in an interactive shell.
Interacted with the Amazon AWS Cloud with the Spark python commands in an interactive shell.
Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Infrastructure services EC2.
Have written SQL queries to generate the reports for the Web Trade Service application.
Good communication, interpersonal and quick learning skills with proven ability to adapt to different project environments.
CERTIFICATIONS
Completed an officially Certified, Oracle Certified Java Programmers (OCJP).
TECHNICAL SKILLS
EDUCATIONAL DETAILS
Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science from JNTUK, INDIA.
WORK EXPERIENCE
#1 SR. JAVA/UI DEVELOPER                                                                           Sept’2015 – Till Date
Client: Office of State Courts Administrator (OSCA), Jefferson City, MO.
Description: The Show-Me Courts program is an evolutionary approach in managing the automated systems and business and business process utilized by the Missouri judiciary. With this approach overtime the system such as Judicial Information System(JIS), Case.net, eBench, efiling, OSCA reports etc will be enhanced, replaced, created or retired and business process will be evaluated to improve efficiencies using oracle forms 11g.
Responsibilities:
Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE and SCRUM methodology.
Experience Tester in Agile Development Environment Using TDD and ATDD approach.
Involved in communicating with the client and product team to understand the frequently changing requirements.
Created sample code to test the CICD (continuous integration continuous delivery) pipeline.
Developed web Application Using Core Java, spring, Hibernate, HTML5, Angular-JS , JavaScript,  Jquery and CSS.
Developed Angular controllers, services and used Angular-UI.
Developed Jasmine unit test cases for controllers, services, directives.
Used Karma as the unit test runner.
Created the Angularjs app using Yeoman, Grunt, Bower and used Angular UI for component model.
Build library with BackboneJS for internal use .
Function the UI permissions to allow the qualified users to generate the maintenance reports in PDF and Excel by Jasper Report.
Designed and developed UI screens using Struts 2, DOJO, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, DOM, CSS, and AJAX.
Developed responsive webpages to accommodate large and complex reports using Bootstrap for the web application.
Used JIRA for issue tracking and bug tracking. Allows workers to track status and a client's compliance with work programs for TANF/SNAP eligibility.
Wrote rules directly in the Drools Rule Language (DRL), and decision table.
Installing and configuring Apache and supporting them on Linux production servers.
Develops new screens using Oracle Forms 11g for application as per requirements.
Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.
Creating, installing,  Oracle Weblogic Application servers, deploying WAR, JAR files on them installed on both Linux, Solaris servers.
Deployed code on IBM Websphere Application Servers and maintained applications.
Workflow tools included: ReactJS, Redux, Flux, Axios, NodeJS, REST API, HTML, CSS, JavaScript(ES6), Webpack, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, Postman, Docker and Github.
Participated in understanding of Ext JS technologies and development tasks.
Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with Ext JS.
Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.
Built model jar files and rule flow, helped design the large numbers of rules, extracted rules data from the database and decision tables. Invoked rules from Java side. Used Drools Decision Table using excel sheets with a Spring boot project.
Followed TDD (Test Driven Development) approach to develop the project.
Involved in bug fixing and developing the enhancements for the UI using JSP.
Worked on Jersey, Jackson, Multipart dependency frameworks.
Involved in development of REST Web Services using Spring boot to extract data from databases.
Developed and Consuming the REST web service.
Consuming SOAP based Web Services for Integrating with the Enterprise Information System Tier.
Used SOAPUI for testing the SOAP web services and POSTMAN for testing REST web services.
Used MYSQL workbench for writing the SQL queries, triggers, procedures and functions.
Developed the back-end using both Core Java (Collections and multithreading) as well as spring and also involved myself in incorporating business logic in SQL code (stored procedures) using MySQL.
Created and maintained tables, created indexes, triggers and wrote complex stored procedures in Sybase to extract specific data from the XML feeds according to business rules.
Integrated various modules and deployed them in JBoss 6 Application Server.
Used Phabricator for code review requests.
Worked with designing and building automation frameworks in Cucumber BBD.
Cucumber was used for entire regression testing and functional testing with primary tool as Selenium to test Scenarios, test Cases and Test conditions identified.
Visualized network log analysis with graphs and charts using Kibana and Tableau.
Designed and developed automate creation on of kafka and zookeeper infrastructure.
Used GIT and Bitbucket as the version control.
Implemented Grails Spock Test cases for all existing controllers, Services and Domain classes
Used Log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.
Used Agile tools like Rally and Jira for project management and tracking.
Used Jenkins to build and deploy the application.
Involved in creating the release candidates.
Used IntelliJ as a code editor.
Environment: java 8, JDK 1.8/1.7, MYSQL, Agile and Scrum Development Process, Linux, Oracle forms & reports 11g,  Oracle Web Services, JSP, Spring boot, Hibernate, Angular-JS 2.0, Bootstrap, DOJO, Drools, IBM websphere, Sybase, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Backbone js, Node js, Ext ls JQuery, JSON, REST, Drools, Kafka, IntelliJ, Websphere, Maven, NoSQL, Log4J, JUnit, Grails, GIT, Rally, Jersey, kibana, Cucumber, Selenium, Tableau, Jira and JBoss.
#2 Client: VISA INC, Austin, Texas.                                                       Nov’2014 – Aug’2015
SR. JAVA DEVELOPER
Description: The purpose of this project is to provide Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition (OBIEE) application and SRMP application with Global Merchant Repository (GMR) merchant hierarchy information to enhance current OBIEE supplier matching, analysis capabilities and SRMP supplier parent-child relationship information. Additional merchant information will help identify cost savings opportunities, reduce process inefficiencies and decrease duplications and errors. The information will capture the Global Ultimate parent of all suppliers based on the D&B hierarchy.
Responsibilities:
Involved in analysis, design and development of OBIEE and SRMP integration system and developed specifications that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.
Experience Tester in Agile and Scrum Development Environment Using TDD and ATDD approach.
Coded dynamic and browser compatible UI web pages using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, AngularJS, Ajax and ReactJS responsive design in MVC environment.
Modify borg jobs, construct tables and charts using  Javascript, and CSS.
Extensive experience with Agile Team Development and Test Driven Development using JIRA
Use Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.
Design and develop the Process Engine framework using JBPM.
Design and develop Human Task Service framework for JBPM process engine.
Design and develop process persistence framework using JBPM and Open JPA.
Having good experience in building multi-threaded Java server side applications and frameworks.
Used Node js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) .
Used groovy and spring boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as json distributed to many applications
Used Open source products to build re-usable components that can be used as base application frameworks.
Created REST based web services using JAX-RS library.
Management of the application's deployments (jenkins, shell) SVN
Implemented data access tier using Spring boot.
Used Spring IOC (Inversion of Control) to remove the object Dependencies across the application.
Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of Mongo DB.
Designed a Spanner table storing coefficients of special events as the data source of the backend service.
Integrated various modules and deployed them in JBoss 6 Application Server.
• Implemented Singleton, MVC, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects design patterns.
• Develop and enhance intelligent search algorithms.
•Worked through all phases of system development life cycle and has performed as a senior    DB2UDB DBA.
• Used Lucene/Apache Solr to index the processed data to make use of Solr search capabilities.
• Worked with different business groups to generate cost based reports using Solr.
• Design, purchase, assemble, and configure network servers and workstations for data processing, multimedia production, web services, email, and other business operations using UNIX (Solaris, RedHat, Gentoo Linux) and Windows (XP, Vista, 7, 2003 Server, 2008 Server) Operating Systems.
• Several reports were built using Hive and indexed using Solr.
• Involved in developing UNIX scripts for creating and indexing the Data in the Solr.
• Expert working Knowledge of UNIX Shell Scripting and Scheduling Cron jobs and tools like WINSCP, PUTTY, FTP/SFTP and CONNECT DIRECT.
•  Used UNIX and shell scripting extensively to enhance the PERL scripts and develop, schedule and support Control M batch jobs to schedule the data generation and reporting. The PERL and SHELL scripts invoke the stored procedures for data load, computation and generation of reports.
• Developed GUI using JSP, JavaScript, JSF, HTML5, AJAX, XSL, Angular JS, and CSS3.
• Wrote GWT code to create presentation layer using GWT widgets and event handlers.
• Created custom composite GWT widgets to make it reusable across the application.
• Worked with XML and JSON contents
• Used Log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.
• Used Rational Clear Case for version control.
• Used Maven to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses.
• Developing automated process for builds and deployments using Jenkins, Gradle.
• Wrote unit test cases using JUnit, JMock and acceptance tests using STIQ.
• Supported the application across multiple environments like QA, UAT and Production.
Environment: Java 8, JDK 1.8, Core Java, Lucene/Apache Solr, Web Sphere Application Server , JSON, Reactjs, XML, Clear case, Clear Quest, JIRA, Unix, Perl, Shell Scripting, JBPM, Mongo DB, UNIX, RESTFUL web services, Spring MVC, Groovy, Spring boot, JAX-RS, Node js, Jboss, Collections, Maven, Gradle, JDBC, DB2 UDB, Log4j, JUnit, JMock.
#3 Client: QVC, West Chester, PA             			Mar’2013 – Nov’2014
SR. JAVA DEVELOPER
Description: Building a new platform to establish a unique and streamlined communication between vendors and QVC management. The goal of the project is set to establish the standards to manage the events, survey, education, analytics and collaborations with integrity and transparency to vendors. It also brings the vendors to global QVC market.
Responsibilities
Involve in various stages of application development through requirement, analysis ,     development, and testing.
Involve in Agile software development life cycle (SDLC) with SCRUM methodology.
implement machine learning algorithms for document recommendation in enterprise taking advantage of several data sources available in enterprise.
Gathered business requirements and wrote functional specifications and technical detailed design documents.
Created sample code to test the CICD (continuous integration continuous delivery) pipeline.
Design and development of the web services frameworks for QVC.
Design and develop process persistence framework using JBPM and Open JPA.
Use Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.
Creating UML class and sequence diagrams by using Enterprise Architect.
Developed JSPs and display the data to the client side. Extensively used JSP standard tag libraries and Spring Tag Libraries.
Used AngularJS to Auto Populate search text box with JSON Object returned by Spring MVC Controller.
Implemented Spring MVC to connect to front end UI and perform operations and CSS media queries to improve responsive design for different screen resolutions.
Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with Ext JS.
Worked on Jersey, Jackson, Multipart dependency frameworks.
Used Mybatis and spring validations to perform validations of front end.
Used Spring IOC, Auto wired Pojo and DAO classes with Spring Controller.
Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.
Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application.
Implemented AWS client API to interact with different services as Console configuration for AWS EC2.
Excellent knowledge in migrating data and databases using side by side migrations with methods like attach detach, SSIS packages as well as copy database tasks.
Data migration (import & export) from text, CSV and access files to SQL server 2012.
Developed the back-end using both Core Java (Collections and multithreading) as well as spring and also involved myself in incorporating business logic in SQL code (stored procedures) using MySQL.
Used PL/SQL procedures.
AngularJS library has been used for creation of powerful dynamic Webpages and web applications by using its advanced and cross browser functionality.
Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved.
Developed common XML schema’s as client contracts used to publish Top Down approach based Web Services.
Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integration.
Used AJAX and JavaScript to handle asynchronous requests; and CSS was used to keep uniformity in look of the application.
Responsible for using XML Schema XSD, SAX, DOM, XSL, XSLT, XPATH for development.
Used shell scripts to set up Client and Server Object DB database.
Kafka Messaging Cluster has been used to provide distributed publishing.
Installed and configured VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM DR solutions).
Application uses RabbitMQ/AMQP for events processing.
Deployed the application to TOMCAT server.
Build components scheduling and configuration using Maven3.
Wrote numerous test cases using JUnit framework and JUnit for front end UI testing.
Use Web Load tool to perform GUI, performance, fail-over and load testing.
Using SVN for code repository and Eclipse for IDE.
Using Log4j for application logging and debugging.
Environment: OOAD, Java 1.8, Core Java, J2EE, HTML 5, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, Ext js, Spring 3.0, Maven3, PL/SQL, Jersey, Mybatis, JBPA, JPA, JAX-RS, Kafka, RabbitMQ/AMQP, TOMCAT 8.0, Spring MVC, JUnit 4, SVN, Log4j, Eclipse Luna, Python.
#4 Client: Palmetto GBA, Columbia, 	SC.				 Apr’2012 – Feb’2013
SR. JAVA DEVELOPER
Description: Palmetto is writing server side web application for their different health care products. Customer will choose different health care benefits out of the plan options available. The services will enable them to manage health insurance products, features, benefits and benefit values and attributes. Client interacts through web interface with web services written at back end to fetch data from database and select their plan benefits.
Responsibilities:
Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes requirement gathering, design, coding, testing.
Implemented Agile methodology throughout the project development lifecycles.
Implement native method calls from Java to C/C++ and converted C/C++ code to Java for socket implementation of TCP/UDP/SIP messages across each gateway platform.
Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of backend components using J2EE technologies such as Springs 3 and Spring JDBC.
Extensive use of Team forge, for maintaining the design and other project related documents, status of the assigned tasks.
Worked on installation of different versions of DB2 UDB on AIX
Designed and developed Business Services using Spring Framework (Dependency Injection) and DAO Design Patterns to retrieve the data from database.
Developed Project Specific Java API’s for the new requirements with Effective usage of Data Structures, Algorithms and Core Java, OOPS concepts.
Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.
Developed web service for web store components using Restful API.
Used XML, XSD and JSON messages for Data transfer. Used JAXB API and DOM for XML parsing messages.
Developed application Specific thread safe XML APIs, XML Document Builder and parser utils, validators using java DOM Parser which is used among the components.
Implemented Business logic in the middle-tier using Java classes, Java beans.
Created and modified Complex SQL Commands.
Database designing and tables, master data creation in the database.
Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of Mongo DB.
Analyzing the execution plan and choosing the optimized query for the DB operation using SQL Developer, Teradata and DBeaver.
Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.
Extensive use of Appwatch MQ for interaction between components and Dev to Dev testing.
Involved in configuring Web.xml, Springs-context.xml.
Deployed code on Websphere Application Servers and maintained applications.
Designed and developed an enterprise common logging around slf4j with a centralized log support (used logger info, error and debug, trace levels).
Developed test cases using JUNIT4, and used SVN for maintaining repository for the project.
Used Soap UI for Dev to Dev testing.
Used Sonar for maintaining the code quality and JUnit code coverage.
Environment: Java 1.6, Java Beans, J2EE, SOAP, Spring 3.0, CXF, Ajax, Jquery, JSP, XSD, XMLBean, MongoDB , Node js, WebSphere 6.0, JUnit, Log4J, FileZilla, Spring Framework security using LDAP, IBM websphere, Mongo DB, TFS, SharePoint, RAD 8.0 & 8.5, DB2 UDB, Mainframe Platform.
#5 Client: STATE BANK OF HYDERABAD, Hyderabad, India.              Feb’2010 – Mar’2012
JR. JAVA DEVELOPER
Description: State Bank of Hyderabad is one of commercial banks in the India, and provides Customers with a full range of financial products and services in locations throughout India. We developed an application for retail customers of the bank. They can go online and view their account balances, statements, manage their contact info, do bill payment and communicate securely with the bank customer service.
Responsibilities:
Analysis and Design of various modules using J2EE Architecture.
Written Hibernate annotation based mapping java classes with Oracle Database tables.
Used Session façade. Implemented JMS API for messaging.
Developed web services SOAP, WSDL and web services clients using JAXB and XML, implemented SOA architecture.
Involved in High Level Design and prepared Logical view of the Application.
Involved in designing and developing of Object Oriented methodologies using UML and created Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams.
Implemented Multithread concepts in java classes to avoid deadlocking.
Utilize Redux to render and deploy company-end setting webpages and all the jobseeker-end webpages.
Created Core java Interfaces and Abstract classes for different functionalities.
Written Spring Core and Spring MVC files to associate DAO with Business Layer.
Used PL/SQL procedures.
Implemented the spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.
Wrote Action classes, Business Objects and Service classes.
Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages.
Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc which are required for the developer.
Worked with various version control tools like CVS, Clear Case and Subversion (SVN) 
Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server 
Configured Struts-config.xml with all the mappings required by the architecture.
Created Data Source and deployed web application in the IBM Websphere application Server.
Implemented JSF in Presentation layer programming using JSTL, AJAX, GWT Development.
Worked with DHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON in UI pages.
Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.
Installing, configuring Jboss 4.3 on Linux, Unix servers, integrating it with Apache server.
Writing JavaScript functions for various validation purposes. Writing Java Beans to contain data objects. Implemented session beans, entity beans and message driven beans.
Developed client user interface using JSPs and Servlets.
Used Version Control Tool to perform Checking-out and Checking-in of codes from the repository.
Used EJB Query Language to retrieve data from Hypersonic SQL.
Developed web services in Java and Experienced with SOAP.
Used Jenkins to build and deploy the application.
Developed and maintained Ant Scripts for the build purposes on testing and production environments.
Environment: EJB2.0, Springs, Hibernate, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Web services, XML, XSLT, XSL, JavaScript, Struts , Ant, JBoss, HSQL, Net Beans, Apache, DB2, Oracle 9i, SQL, PL/SQL, IBM websphere, Windows 2000/XP, Linux , Unix, Enterprise Architect.
#6 Client: IMS HEALTH, Bangalore, India.   				 Jun’2008 – Jan’2010
JR. JAVA DEVELOPER
Description: Project involved creating new pages for personals site to provide users a better and friendly experience with the site using Agile Methodology of software development. Project involves developing product pages for personals providing various features to users along with promoting partners in various pharmaceutical companies.
Responsibilities:
Involved in Design, Development, Testing and Integration of the application.
Implementing business logic and data base connectivity.
Client side installation and configuration of project.
Developed using simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.
Co-coordinated Application testing with the help of testing team.
Writing database queries on Oracle 9i.
Writing stored procedures, Packages, Views, Cursors, Functions and triggers using SQL in the back end.
Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.
Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database.
Used PL/SQL procedures.
Generated proper correspondence for Health Benefits such as SNAP, TANF and LiHeap Program.
Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.
Created and implemented Oracle Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and complex queries using SQL.
Used multithreaded environment to run the processes asynchronously using different future calls to access the data.
Ability to quickly adjust priorities and take on projects with limited specifications.  Effective team player with excellent logical and analytical abilities.
Excellent written and verbal communication skills, inter-personal skills and self-learning attitude.
Environment: Java, JSP, Struts 1.3.8, CMS, Spring 1.0.2, SOAP Web services, SOA, JavaScript, CSS, XML, JAXB XHTML, XSLT, JMS, Ajax, Hibernate 2.1, SNAP, TANF, LiHeap, EJB 2.0, 2.1, Log4j, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, Web Sphere 6.1, Ant, RAD 7.0, Eclipse 3.2, UNIX, Perl.